One of Sherlock Holmes's defects—if, indeed, one may call it a defect—was thathe was exceedingly loath to communicate his full plans to any other personuntil the instant of their fulfilment. Partly it came no doubt from his ownmasterful nature, which loved to dominate and surprise those who were aroundhim. Partly also from his professional caution, which urged him never to takeany chances. The result, however, was very trying for those who were acting ashis agents and assistants. I had often suffered under it, but never more sothan during that long drive in the darkness. The great ordeal was in front ofus; at last we were about to make our final effort, and yet Holmes had saidnothing, and I could only surmise what his course of action would be. My nervesthrilled with anticipation when at last the cold wind upon our faces and thedark, void spaces on either side of the narrow road told me that we were backupon the moor once again. Every stride of the horses and every turn of thewheels was taking us nearer to our supreme adventure.
Our conversation was hampered by the presence of the driver of the hiredwagonette, so that we were forced to talk of trivial matters when our nerveswere tense with emotion and anticipation. It was a relief to me, after thatunnatural restraint, when we at last passed Frankland's house and knew that wewere drawing near to the Hall and to the scene of action. We did not drive upto the door but got down near the gate of the avenue. The wagonette was paidoff and ordered to return to Coombe Tracey forthwith, while we started to walkto Merripit House.
"Are you armed, Lestrade?"
The little detective smiled.
"As long as I have my trousers I have a hip-pocket, and as long as I have myhip-pocket I have something in it."
"Good! My friend and I are also ready for emergencies."
"You're mighty close about this affair, Mr. Holmes. What's the game now?"
"A waiting game."
"My word, it does not seem a very cheerful place," said the detective with ashiver, glancing round him at the gloomy slopes of the hill and at the hugelake of fog which lay over the Grimpen Mire. "I see the lights of a house aheadof us."
"That is Merripit House and the end of our journey. I must request you to walkon tiptoe and not to talk above a whisper."
We moved cautiously along the track as if we were bound for the house, butHolmes halted us when we were about two hundred yards from it.
"This will do," said he. "These rocks upon the right make an admirable screen."
"We are to wait here?"
"Yes, we shall make our little ambush here. Get into this hollow, Lestrade. Youhave been inside the house, have you not, Watson? Can you tell the position ofthe rooms? What are those latticed windows at this end?"
"I think they are the kitchen windows."
"And the one beyond, which shines so brightly?"
"That is certainly the dining-room."
"The blinds are up. You know the lie of the land best. Creep forward quietlyand see what they are doing—but for heaven's sake don't let them know that theyare watched!"
I tiptoed down the path and stooped behind the low wall which surrounded thestunted orchard. Creeping in its shadow I reached a point whence I could lookstraight through the uncurtained window.
There were only two men in the room, Sir Henry and Stapleton. They sat withtheir profiles towards me on either side of the round table. Both of them weresmoking cigars, and coffee and wine were in front of them. Stapleton wastalking with animation, but the baronet looked pale and distrait. Perhaps thethought of that lonely walk across the ill-omened moor was weighing heavilyupon his mind.
As I watched them Stapleton rose and left the room, while Sir Henry filled hisglass again and leaned back in his chair, puffing at his cigar. I heard thecreak of a door and the crisp sound of boots upon gravel. The steps passedalong the path on the other side of the wall under which I crouched. Lookingover, I saw the naturalist pause at the door of an out-house in the corner ofthe orchard. A key turned in a lock, and as he passed in there was a curiousscuffling noise from within. He was only a minute or so inside, and then Iheard the key turn once more and he passed me and re-entered the house. I sawhim rejoin his guest, and I crept quietly back to where my companions werewaiting to tell them what I had seen.
"You say, Watson, that the lady is not there?" Holmes asked, when I hadfinished my report.
"No."
"Where can she be, then, since there is no light in any other room except thekitchen?"
"I cannot think where she is."
I have said that over the great Grimpen Mire there hung a dense, white fog. Itwas drifting slowly in our direction, and banked itself up like a wall on thatside of us, low, but thick and well defined. The moon shone on it, and itlooked like a great shimmering ice-field, with the heads of the distant tors asrocks borne upon its surface. Holmes's face was turned towards it, and hemuttered impatiently as he watched its sluggish drift.
"It's moving towards us, Watson."
"Is that serious?"
"Very serious, indeed—the one thing upon earth which could have disarranged myplans. He can't be very long, now. It is already ten o'clock. Our success andeven his life may depend upon his coming out before the fog is over the path."
The night was clear and fine above us. The stars shone cold and bright, while ahalf-moon bathed the whole scene in a soft, uncertain light. Before us lay thedark bulk of the house, its serrated roof and bristling chimneys hard outlinedagainst the silver-spangled sky. Broad bars of golden light from the lowerwindows stretched across the orchard and the moor. One of them was suddenlyshut off. The servants had left the kitchen. There only remained the lamp inthe dining-room where the two men, the murderous host and the unconsciousguest, still chatted over their cigars.
Every minute that white woolly plain which covered one half of the moor wasdrifting closer and closer to the house. Already the first thin wisps of itwere curling across the golden square of the lighted window. The farther wallof the orchard was already invisible, and the trees were standing out of aswirl of white vapour. As we watched it the fog-wreaths came crawling roundboth corners of the house and rolled slowly into one dense bank, on which theupper floor and the roof floated like a strange ship upon a shadowy sea. Holmesstruck his hand passionately upon the rock in front of us and stamped his feetin his impatience.
"If he isn't out in a quarter of an hour the path will be covered. In half anhour we won't be able to see our hands in front of us."
"Shall we move farther back upon higher ground?"
"Yes, I think it would be as well."
So as the fog-bank flowed onward we fell back before it until we were half amile from the house, and still that dense white sea, with the moon silveringits upper edge, swept slowly and inexorably on.
"We are going too far," said Holmes. "We dare not take the chance of his beingovertaken before he can reach us. At all costs we must hold our ground where weare." He dropped on his knees and clapped his ear to the ground. "Thank God, Ithink that I hear him coming."
A sound of quick steps broke the silence of the moor. Crouching among thestones we stared intently at the silver-tipped bank in front of us. The stepsgrew louder, and through the fog, as through a curtain, there stepped the manwhom we were awaiting. He looked round him in surprise as he emerged into theclear, starlit night. Then he came swiftly along the path, passed close towhere we lay, and went on up the long slope behind us. As he walked he glancedcontinually over either shoulder, like a man who is ill at ease.
"Hist!" cried Holmes, and I heard the sharp click of a cocking pistol. "Lookout! It's coming!"
There was a thin, crisp, continuous patter from somewhere in the heart of thatcrawling bank. The cloud was within fifty yards of where we lay, and we glaredat it, all three, uncertain what horror was about to break from the heart ofit. I was at Holmes's elbow, and I glanced for an instant at his face. It waspale and exultant, his eyes shining brightly in the moonlight. But suddenlythey started forward in a rigid, fixed stare, and his lips parted in amazement.At the same instant Lestrade gave a yell of terror and threw himself facedownward upon the ground. I sprang to my feet, my inert hand grasping mypistol, my mind paralyzed by the dreadful shape which had sprung out upon usfrom the shadows of the fog. A hound it was, an enormous coal-black hound, butnot such a hound as mortal eyes have ever seen. Fire burst from its open mouth,its eyes glowed with a smouldering glare, its muzzle and hackles and dewlapwere outlined in flickering flame. Never in the delirious dream of a disorderedbrain could anything more savage, more appalling, more hellish be conceivedthan that dark form and savage face which broke upon us out of the wall of fog.
With long bounds the huge black creature was leaping down the track, followinghard upon the footsteps of our friend. So paralyzed were we by the apparitionthat we allowed him to pass before we had recovered our nerve. Then Holmes andI both fired together, and the creature gave a hideous howl, which showed thatone at least had hit him. He did not pause, however, but bounded onward. Faraway on the path we saw Sir Henry looking back, his face white in themoonlight, his hands raised in horror, glaring helplessly at the frightfulthing which was hunting him down.
But that cry of pain from the hound had blown all our fears to the winds. If hewas vulnerable he was mortal, and if we could wound him we could kill him.Never have I seen a man run as Holmes ran that night. I am reckoned fleet offoot, but he outpaced me as much as I outpaced the little professional. Infront of us as we flew up the track we heard scream after scream from Sir Henryand the deep roar of the hound. I was in time to see the beast spring upon itsvictim, hurl him to the ground, and worry at his throat. But the next instantHolmes had emptied five barrels of his revolver into the creature's flank. Witha last howl of agony and a vicious snap in the air, it rolled upon its back,four feet pawing furiously, and then fell limp upon its side. I stooped,panting, and pressed my pistol to the dreadful, shimmering head, but it wasuseless to press the trigger. The giant hound was dead.
Sir Henry lay insensible where he had fallen. We tore away his collar, andHolmes breathed a prayer of gratitude when we saw that there was no sign of awound and that the rescue had been in time. Already our friend's eyelidsshivered and he made a feeble effort to move. Lestrade thrust his brandy-flaskbetween the baronet's teeth, and two frightened eyes were looking up at us.
"My God!" he whispered. "What was it? What, in heaven's name, was it?"
"It's dead, whatever it is," said Holmes. "We've laid the family ghost once andforever."
In mere size and strength it was a terrible creature which was lying stretchedbefore us. It was not a pure bloodhound and it was not a pure mastiff; but itappeared to be a combination of the two—gaunt, savage, and as large as a smalllioness. Even now, in the stillness of death, the huge jaws seemed to bedripping with a bluish flame and the small, deep-set, cruel eyes were ringedwith fire. I placed my hand upon the glowing muzzle, and as I held them up myown fingers smouldered and gleamed in the darkness.
"Phosphorus," I said.
"A cunning preparation of it," said Holmes, sniffing at the dead animal. "Thereis no smell which might have interfered with his power of scent. We owe you adeep apology, Sir Henry, for having exposed you to this fright. I was preparedfor a hound, but not for such a creature as this. And the fog gave us littletime to receive him."
"You have saved my life."
"Having first endangered it. Are you strong enough to stand?"
"Give me another mouthful of that brandy and I shall be ready for anything. So!Now, if you will help me up. What do you propose to do?"
"To leave you here. You are not fit for further adventures to-night. If youwill wait, one or other of us will go back with you to the Hall."
He tried to stagger to his feet; but he was still ghastly pale and trembling inevery limb. We helped him to a rock, where he sat shivering with his faceburied in his hands.
"We must leave you now," said Holmes. "The rest of our work must be done, andevery moment is of importance. We have our case, and now we only want our man.
"It's a thousand to one against our finding him at the house," he continued aswe retraced our steps swiftly down the path. "Those shots must have told himthat the game was up."
"We were some distance off, and this fog may have deadened them."
"He followed the hound to call him off—of that you may be certain. No, no, he'sgone by this time! But we'll search the house and make sure."
The front door was open, so we rushed in and hurried from room to room to theamazement of a doddering old manservant, who met us in the passage. There wasno light save in the dining-room, but Holmes caught up the lamp and left nocorner of the house unexplored. No sign could we see of the man whom we werechasing. On the upper floor, however, one of the bedroom doors was locked.
"There's someone in here," cried Lestrade. "I can hear a movement. Open thisdoor!"
A faint moaning and rustling came from within. Holmes struck the door just overthe lock with the flat of his foot and it flew open. Pistol in hand, we allthree rushed into the room.
But there was no sign within it of that desperate and defiant villain whom weexpected to see. Instead we were faced by an object so strange and sounexpected that we stood for a moment staring at it in amazement.
The room had been fashioned into a small museum, and the walls were lined by anumber of glass-topped cases full of that collection of butterflies and mothsthe formation of which had been the relaxation of this complex and dangerousman. In the centre of this room there was an upright beam, which had beenplaced at some period as a support for the old worm-eaten baulk of timber whichspanned the roof. To this post a figure was tied, so swathed and muffled in thesheets which had been used to secure it that one could not for the moment tellwhether it was that of a man or a woman. One towel passed round the throat andwas secured at the back of the pillar. Another covered the lower part of theface, and over it two dark eyes—eyes full of grief and shame and a dreadfulquestioning—stared back at us. In a minute we had torn off the gag, unswathedthe bonds, and Mrs. Stapleton sank upon the floor in front of us. As herbeautiful head fell upon her chest I saw the clear red weal of a whiplashacross her neck.
"The brute!" cried Holmes. "Here, Lestrade, your brandy-bottle! Put her in thechair! She has fainted from ill-usage and exhaustion."
She opened her eyes again.
"Is he safe?" she asked. "Has he escaped?"
"He cannot escape us, madam."
"No, no, I did not mean my husband. Sir Henry? Is he safe?"
"Yes."
"And the hound?"
"It is dead."
She gave a long sigh of satisfaction.
"Thank God! Thank God! Oh, this villain! See how he has treated me!" She shother arms out from her sleeves, and we saw with horror that they were allmottled with bruises. "But this is nothing—nothing! It is my mind and soul thathe has tortured and defiled. I could endure it all, ill-usage, solitude, a lifeof deception, everything, as long as I could still cling to the hope that I hadhis love, but now I know that in this also I have been his dupe and his tool."She broke into passionate sobbing as she spoke.
"You bear him no good will, madam," said Holmes. "Tell us then where we shallfind him. If you have ever aided him in evil, help us now and so atone."
"There is but one place where he can have fled," she answered. "There is an oldtin mine on an island in the heart of the mire. It was there that he kept hishound and there also he had made preparations so that he might have a refuge.That is where he would fly."
The fog-bank lay like white wool against the window. Holmes held the lamptowards it.
"See," said he. "No one could find his way into the Grimpen Mire to-night."
She laughed and clapped her hands. Her eyes and teeth gleamed with fiercemerriment.
"He may find his way in, but never out," she cried. "How can he see the guidingwands to-night? We planted them together, he and I, to mark the pathway throughthe mire. Oh, if I could only have plucked them out to-day. Then indeed youwould have had him at your mercy!"
It was evident to us that all pursuit was in vain until the fog had lifted.Meanwhile we left Lestrade in possession of the house while Holmes and I wentback with the baronet to Baskerville Hall. The story of the Stapletons could nolonger be withheld from him, but he took the blow bravely when he learned thetruth about the woman whom he had loved. But the shock of the night'sadventures had shattered his nerves, and before morning he lay delirious in ahigh fever, under the care of Dr. Mortimer. The two of them were destined totravel together round the world before Sir Henry had become once more the hale,hearty man that he had been before he became master of that ill-omened estate.
And now I come rapidly to the conclusion of this singular narrative, in which Ihave tried to make the reader share those dark fears and vague surmises whichclouded our lives so long and ended in so tragic a manner. On the morning afterthe death of the hound the fog had lifted and we were guided by Mrs. Stapletonto the point where they had found a pathway through the bog. It helped us torealize the horror of this woman's life when we saw the eagerness and joy withwhich she laid us on her husband's track. We left her standing upon the thinpeninsula of firm, peaty soil which tapered out into the widespread bog. Fromthe end of it a small wand planted here and there showed where the pathzigzagged from tuft to tuft of rushes among those green-scummed pits and foulquagmires which barred the way to the stranger. Rank reeds and lush, slimywater-plants sent an odour of decay and a heavy miasmatic vapour onto ourfaces, while a false step plunged us more than once thigh-deep into the dark,quivering mire, which shook for yards in soft undulations around our feet. Itstenacious grip plucked at our heels as we walked, and when we sank into it itwas as if some malignant hand was tugging us down into those obscene depths, sogrim and purposeful was the clutch in which it held us. Once only we saw atrace that someone had passed that perilous way before us. From amid a tuft ofcotton grass which bore it up out of the slime some dark thing was projecting.Holmes sank to his waist as he stepped from the path to seize it, and had wenot been there to drag him out he could never have set his foot upon firm landagain. He held an old black boot in the air. "Meyers, Toronto," was printed onthe leather inside.
"It is worth a mud bath," said he. "It is our friend Sir Henry's missing boot."
"Thrown there by Stapleton in his flight."
"Exactly. He retained it in his hand after using it to set the hound upon thetrack. He fled when he knew the game was up, still clutching it. And he hurledit away at this point of his flight. We know at least that he came so far insafety."
But more than that we were never destined to know, though there was much whichwe might surmise. There was no chance of finding footsteps in the mire, for therising mud oozed swiftly in upon them, but as we at last reached firmer groundbeyond the morass we all looked eagerly for them. But no slightest sign of themever met our eyes. If the earth told a true story, then Stapleton never reachedthat island of refuge towards which he struggled through the fog upon that lastnight. Somewhere in the heart of the great Grimpen Mire, down in the foul slimeof the huge morass which had sucked him in, this cold and cruel-hearted man isforever buried.
Many traces we found of him in the bog-girt island where he had hid his savageally. A huge driving-wheel and a shaft half-filled with rubbish showed theposition of an abandoned mine. Beside it were the crumbling remains of thecottages of the miners, driven away no doubt by the foul reek of thesurrounding swamp. In one of these a staple and chain with a quantity of gnawedbones showed where the animal had been confined. A skeleton with a tangle ofbrown hair adhering to it lay among the debris.
"A dog!" said Holmes. "By Jove, a curly-haired spaniel. Poor Mortimer willnever see his pet again. Well, I do not know that this place contains anysecret which we have not already fathomed. He could hide his hound, but hecould not hush its voice, and hence came those cries which even in daylightwere not pleasant to hear. On an emergency he could keep the hound in theout-house at Merripit, but it was always a risk, and it was only on the supremeday, which he regarded as the end of all his efforts, that he dared do it. Thispaste in the tin is no doubt the luminous mixture with which the creature wasdaubed. It was suggested, of course, by the story of the family hell-hound, andby the desire to frighten old Sir Charles to death. No wonder the poor devil ofa convict ran and screamed, even as our friend did, and as we ourselves mighthave done, when he saw such a creature bounding through the darkness of themoor upon his track. It was a cunning device, for, apart from the chance ofdriving your victim to his death, what peasant would venture to inquire tooclosely into such a creature should he get sight of it, as many have done, uponthe moor? I said it in London, Watson, and I say it again now, that never yethave we helped to hunt down a more dangerous man than he who is lyingyonder"—he swept his long arm towards the huge mottled expanse ofgreen-splotched bog which stretched away until it merged into the russet slopesof the moor.