České dráhy has invested over 31 billion in the modernisation of carriages.
They are now equipped with air conditioning and new toilets.
Over the past six years, the state-owned rail operator has invested over 31 billion Czech crowns in the upgrade of train carriages.
One-third of the carriages is currently equipped with air conditioning, and roughly one-half of trains has a closed toilet system.
Save for 2012, the annual amounts spent on modernisation have been steadily decreasing.
Over the past six years, Czech Railways invested over 31 billion in the modernisation of carriages.
The state-owned carrier operates over two thousand locomotives, electric and diesel units and about 2,130 passenger carriages.
As a result of the investment, the average age of locomotives and separate units has been reduced by two years and that of conventional carriages by six years.
With 60 percent, the carrier spent a larger portion of the investment on regional transport, with 40 percent going into the upgrade of long-distance carriages.
The average age of locomotives and units currently stands at 19 years.
However, upgraded older carriages are counted towards the indicator as brand new.
Without the upgraded vehicles, the average age of traction vehicles of ČD would increase by ten years.
The average age of passenger carriages tends to be higher. If the upgraded carriages are counted, the average age is 23 years.
However, taking into account only the age based on the date of manufacture, the average age of these carriages would be 33.4 years.
Conventional trains consisting of carriages and hauled by locomotives are gradually disappearing from railways not only in the Czech Republic but worldwide and replaced by motorised or electric-powered units.
Between 2011 and 2015, the number of locomotives decreased from 280 to 223 units, and the number of conventional carriages dropped from 2,716 in 2011 to 2,132 in the middle of this year.
The railway operator is mainly getting rid of older carriages fitted with faux leather seats and without a locking system to prevent doors from opening when the train is moving.
From January to July, the operator has had 110 of these carriages scrapped.
The rolling stock investment of ČD includes, for example, the purchase of 50 carriages for speeds up to 200 kilometres per hour, which the operator plans to use on the line Prague - Bratislava - Budapest, or a master agreement for the purchase of electric-powered units for domestic express railway links.
Under the contract, it plans to purchase up to 30 motorised units and up to 20 electric-powered units.
