Polio makes a return in Nigeria.
The Islamist militants from Boko Haram are against vaccinations and are blamed for killing doctors involved in the vaccination programme.
Polio cases have resurfaced in Nigeria.
In the northeast of the country, the government launched an emergency polio vaccination campaign in response of two infected children having been paralysed.
The vaccines were delivered by helicopters.
The Islamist terrorist group Boko Haram, which is active in the area, was against the vaccinations and resorted even to killing doctors.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the virus circulated there undetected.
In the northeast of Nigeria, the government is planning to launch an emergency polio vaccination campaign in response of two infected children having been paralysed.
In Africa, polio was last diagnosed in Somalia two years ago.
The Nigerian government planning on immunizing one million children in the state of Borno and another four million in the neighbouring states.
AP reported that Nigerian military helicopters delivered the polio vaccines quickly to the north-eastern part of the country, where the Islamist terrorist group Boko Haram operates.
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), the virus has been circulating in the area undetected for many years.
The extremist group Boko Haram is against vaccinations and it is blamed for killing doctors involved in the vaccination programme.
On Thursday, their attacks also prevented doctors from getting to the areas where the children were diagnosed with polio.
Both affected babies come with refugees from parts of Nigeria newly freed from Boko Haram.
The Director of polio eradication at WHO told BBC that the immunisation in Nigeria will start as early as next week.
The radical Islamic group Boko Haram operated in the state of Borno for a long time.
International organisations and the government only gained access to the area at the beginning of this year after Boko Haram suffered considerable setbacks in this area.
Nigerian Health Minister Isaac Adewole admitted that new cases of polio are a big disappointment for the country because Nigeria wanted to announce next year that polio was eradicated.
WHO pointed out that could have been spreading among children undetected for two years.
The vaccination programme is for children under five years of age.
In 2012, Nigeria accounted for half of all new polio cases in the world.
The number of countries in which polio is endemic has decreased from 125 countries in 1988 to three areas - Afghanistan, Pakistan and northern Nigeria.
