The police in Olomouc arrested two men for an assault with a knife and machete, and the court ordered to take them into custody.
The police arrested two men, who on Tuesday attacked a thirty-five-year-old man with a knife and a machete.
"Although the victim tried to escape, he suffered stabbing and cutting wounds which required hospital treatment and further rehabilitation," said the police spokeswoman Marie Štrbáková.
The perpetrators were arrested by the police immediately after the attack.
The prosecutor filed a detention order which was upheld by the court on Friday.
The men could spend between three and ten years in prison.
The police arrested two men detained on suspicion of attacking a thirty-five-year-old man with a knife and a machete in the centre of Olomouc.
The attackers inflicted stabbing and cutting wounds on the victim, who required hospital treatment.
According to the police, the attack was preceded by an incident between two groups of people on Tuesday noon at třída Svobody.
The perpetrators ended up in custody, said Marie Štrbáková, the spokeswoman of Olomouc police.
This was preceded by a mass scuffle between two families outside the bar trattoria near the centre of Olomouc.
Following an aggressive altercation, two men attacked a thirty-five-year-old man with a knife and a machete.
Although the victim tried to escape, he suffered stabbing and cutting wounds which required hospital treatment and further rehabilitation," said the police spokeswoman.
The skirmish, which attracted a lot of attention in the city centre as several police units had to intervene at the scene, was the result of a family dispute.
Detectives arrested a thirty four-year-old man from Slovakia and a thirty-seven-year-old man from Olomouc on suspicion of attempted grievous bodily harm and disorderly conduct.
The prosecutor filed a detention order which was upheld by the court on Friday, added the spokeswoman.
Five years ago, a machete was used in another attack, during a mass brawl just a few dozen meters away, before the disco Varna in Riegrova ulice.
According to the police, a group of roughly ten armed foreigners attacked guests of a restaurant who stood in front of the entrance.
According to the police, they were holding knives, sticks and machetes.
Two of the foreign attackers received a suspended sentence.
