Statisticians estimate that this year, farmers will harvest less grain and more rapeseed and poppy.
According to the estimates of the Czech Statistical Office, the grain harvest will be 6.7 percent lower compared to last year.
This year's harvest will still be higher than the average over the past five to ten years.
In contrast, the harvest of rapeseed and poppy is expected to increase by 3.9 and 2.5 percent, respectively.
The harvest of grains will be 6.7 percent lower than last year.
Farmers are expected to harvest 7.2 million tonnes of grain.
This follows from the estimate as at 15 July, released by the Czech Statistical Office.
The initial estimate released a month ago was more pessimistic as it assumed a 10 percent drop compared to last year.
Last year's harvest of cereals was above average.
This year's harvest exceeds the average for the last five to ten years.
In contrast, the harvest of rapeseed and the poppy is expected to be higher this year.
This year, the rapeseed harvest is expected to be 3.9 percent higher than the 1.256 million tonnes harvested last year.
This year's poppy harvest could increase by 2.5 percent year-on-year.
The projected decline in grain harvest is due to a decrease in planted areas as well as a reduction in the yield per hectare by 3.7 percent to 5.71 tonnes per hectare.
This year, planted areas decreased by three percent.
The harvest of winter wheat, which is the most important grain in the Czech Republic, is expected to drop by 3.3 this year.
This is despite the fact that the areas planted under winter wheat have increased.
The decline is due to a lower yield per hectare, which is expected to drop to 6.04 tonnes.
Czech Statistical Office projects roughly a one-fifth decline in spring barley, which is mainly used in the production of beer.
This is attributable to a 15.2 percent reduction in planted areas and a lower per hectare yield.
In contrast, the harvest of winter barley is estimated to grow by 6.3 percent.
The rye harvest is also expected to be higher year-on-year.
The Czech Statistical Office estimates rapeseed harvest to increase year-on-year to 1.305 million tonnes,
on the back of a 7.3 percent increase in planted areas.
However, the yield per hectare will be about 3.2 percent lower than last year.
This year's rapeseed harvest is projected to be 13.3 percent higher than the ten-year average, on the back of a one-third increase in planted areas.
The area planted with poppy seed has also increased over the past four years
to reach 35,543 hectares this year.
Compared to 2008, when poppy seed was planted on a record area of 70,000 hectares, the planted area has halved.
Thanks to the increase in sown areas, this year's poppy harvest is expected to be a success.
It will increase compared to last year by 2.5 percent to 27,423 tons.
The yield per hectare will be about 6.1 percent lower.
