France plans tough action against breeding grounds for jihadists.
They need the assistance from the Muslim community for the measures to work.
The Muslim community is expected to assist the French government in the fight against radical Islamism.
The government of the Prime Minister Manuel Valls is preparing fundamental changes with respect to mosques and the education of clergy.
Since last December, we shut down 20 mosques and places of worship.
and other will follow, said the interior minister.
The country has over one hundred breeding grounds for jihadists.
"If Muslims will not help the Republic to fight against those who undermine public freedoms, it will be increasingly hard for the Republic to guarantee their freedom of worship," said Prime Minister Manuel Valls.
In particular, he intends to ensure that only imams trained in France are allowed to practice in mosques and other places of worship.
At the same time he wants to stop the funding of mosques from abroad.
Currently, around 20 percent of the funds for the construction of new mosques comes from abroad, mainly Morocco, Algeria and the Gulf states.
This is one of the ways how preachers get to spread radical agendas in mosques.
"Our country must show that Islam is compatible with democracy," he added.
The key to ensuring these objectives are met should be the new French Islamic foundation,
which should act as a bridge between the secular state and the Muslim minority.
No more money from abroad.
The country already has a “Foundation for Islam of France”, which was founded in 2005 by former Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin
with the objective to make the financial flows between mosques and countries that that fund their construction more transparent.
The institution was soon hit by internal divisions and rivalries.
"It is a total failure," said Valls recently.
In the aftermath of the attack on the Charlie Hebdo magazine in January 2015, a debate over a new institution that would replace the largely defunct foundation ignited the French political scene.
This urgency has been augmented by further terrorist attacks in France carried out by radicalised Islamists in the name of the Islamic State.
The French Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve recently said that the new foundation will be created as early as in October this year.
It will have two main tasks - to ensure that mosques are funded from domestic sources and to monitor imams.
How the construction of new mosques and various educational centres will be funded is not yet clear
as several proposals are being considered.
One of them is a special fee or tax on halal food,
which would in practice be paid by the vendors of halal food for certification.
Part of this money would then go to the foundation.
Another option would be for French pilgrims heading to Mecca to pay a contribution of ten to twenty euros (an equivalent of 270 - 540 Czech crowns).
Every year, around 30,000 French Muslims go on this pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia.
But this is not all.
According to the Prime Minister, there should only be preachers in mosques in the future who have gone through special educational programmes at French universities.
This is designed to ensure that sermons are compatible with democracy.
We will shut down radical mosques.
The French government is currently on the war path against militants,
and others will follow, announced recently the interior minister.
There is no place in France for those who preach hatred and do not respect the principles of our country, such as equality between women and men.
It is estimated that there are around 2,500 mosques and places of worship in the country,
of which some 120 are thought to be under the influence of radical Islam.
Since 2012, authorities have expelled about 80 of Imams and dozens are currently under consideration.
Not everyone is convinced, however, that the French government's steps will make a significant contribution in the fight against radicalism.
Those who want to be radicalized will do so anyway,
because it is not happening in mosques. Young people are being radicalized on the internet, said Severine Labat, a specialist from the National Centre of Scientific Research.
