The authorities have known about illegal advertising for several months but they seem powerless to stop it.
The authorities themselves admitted as much.
The editorial staff of the online news provider Aktuálně.cz has been following the story of a billboard in southern Bohemia, which now woos motorists to visit Lipno to take a stroll among the treetops or through the Olympic park.
The motorway operators know that it is there illegally, but claim there is nothing they can do about it.
There are hundreds, perhaps thousands of similar ads all across the country.
Officials blame a weak law, which does not provide for the immediate removal of illegal billboards,
and having to go through a bureaucratic exercise first.
What happens in the meantime is that the company changes its name and evades the authorities.
Alternatively, the company moves the billboard by a few meters, and the authorities have to start again from square one.
The Road and Motorway Directorate admitted a few months ago that there was an illegal billboard on their property near the busy national road between České Budějovice and the Lipno dam.
Even in three months, the officials have not managed to have the illegal portable construction and the giant advertisement taken down.
It seems as if nobody cared that it was standing right next to the road, in the fifty-metre protection zone, which must be kept free for safety reasons.
Road operators argue that they cannot deal with the billboard because of legal loopholes.
An option would be simply to load in onto a truck and take it away.
"This is not something we can just go ahead and do" said the spokeswoman of the Road and Motorway Directorate, Nina Ledvinová referring to a complex bureaucratic process which must be followed before the billboard can be removed.
The case of this particular billboard, the fate of which Aktuálně.cz started monitoring in spring, is not unique and points to a general problem which the authorities are unable to handle effectively and efficiently.
In South Bohemia alone, the editorial staff found dozens of similar portable adverts located illegally alongside the road or in its close proximity.
The situation in other regions is similar.
"We find it difficult to force companies to remove the billboards," said the head of the transport department of the regional authority in České Budějovice Jiří Klása, whose colleagues are handling similar cases.
According to Klása, loopholes in the law which ties the hands of officials are to blame.
First, they are required to contact the billboard owners in a bureaucratic way to remove the advert.
The bosses of the companies are often impossible to get hold of or they use the trick, Aktuálně.cz already reported on when they looked into the matter: move the portable stand with advert just a few metres away and the order to remove the illegal billboard is not worth the paper it is written on.
This is because the authority is required to specify the location of the illegal billboard.
"If someone moves it and the coordinates change it is considered to be a new billboard, and we have to approach the owner again," said Klasa.
A new law will not help us in this instance.
The situation could change with a new law, which will ban billboards next to motorways and reduce their numbers near to first-class roads.
Critics point out that the rules for combating illegal and portable adverts will remain the same as before.
This will not really help the authorities.
Companies can continue renting out illegal advertising space and make tens to hundreds million Czech crowns a year and get away with it.
For example, the billboard promoting Lipno is owned by Commerz Billboard.
Officials are familiar with this company as the municipality of České Budějovice is currently conducting three separate administrative proceedings against the company for illegal billboards.
The company could be fined up to three hundred thousand Czech crowns in each case.
This concerns a number of adverts placed illegally within the protection zone of a class 1 road.
The proceedings have not yet been completed, said Jaroslav Mráz, said the head of the transport department of the municipality of České Budějovice.
While the billboard followed by Aktuálně.cz is not yet among these cases, this is likely to change soon.
According to the spokeswoman of the Road and Motorway Directorate, Nina Ledvinová, the company does not respond to repeated written demands and the case will in all likelihood land on the table of regional and later municipal authorities.
Commerz Billboard is among the suspicious companies that are difficult to contact.
The company does not collect its mail and it has closed its official headquarters in Žižkov more than six years ago.
It is also not clear who is behind this company.
In the past, the company's mail was sent to the South Bohemian entrepreneur Anton Fischer, whose claim to fame is the bitter dispute with the head of the Czech representation of Hyundai.
Fischer, whose company Euro Billboard rents space from Comerz Billboard and offers it to advertisers, has, however, denied having any connection to it.
Yet this spring, when the Road and Motorway Directorate started to look into the Lipno billboard case at the initiative of Aktuálně.cz, Fischer had the government officials send a letter to the mysterious company Commerz Billboard to his guest house, where the company is said to have its new address.
The motorway operators have not had any luck with contacting the company at this address either.
This seems to be a futile exercise.
Lack of transparency with respect to the change of addresses are not uncommon..
A few years ago, we fined one company two million Czech crowns in total.
The company then changed its company ID number, and that was it.
The bailiff returned the case, the billboards were still there, maybe in other locations.
We are quite powerless against such companies and their business practices.
It is like fighting windmills, admitted one of the officials on condition of anonymity.
Nobody is yet looking to amend the law.
Aktuálně.cz spoke with several MPs, who have shown interest in the problem,
but so far we have not seen any action from them.
In contrast, there are now MPs, who want to extend the period for keeping the billboards next to major Czech roads.
The government has rejected it.
Billboards are a sensitive topic for many politicians on national, regional and local level, and they are often torn over the issue.
On the one hand, they know that people want to see less of them, but on the other, they themselves need them for election campaign advertising.
I do not share the relatively widespread view that the universal remedy when something does not work is to change the law.
