Judge refuses to deal with the case because of Tluchoř's wife.
Petr Tluchoř is one of three MPs who have been accused by the prosecution service of taking bribes in the form of lucrative positions from the then Prime Minister Nečas and his former chief of staff Jana Nagyova in return for a political concession.
The MPs Šnajdr, Fuksa and Tluchoř facilitated the passing of tax legislation
by resigning from the Parliament,
only to reappear in influential positions at state-owned companies.
This is why they were suspected of bribery and spent one month behind bars.
The court subsequently ruled that this was illegal and they received compensation amounting to nearly 2 million Czech crowns.
Following the intervention of the Supreme Court, Tluchoř is now acting as a witness in the case.
His wife works in the courthouse at Ovocný trh, where she handles civil disputes.
Still, the Judge Helena Králová (editor's note: Ms Králová is a judge for criminal matters) want to be careful to prevent any possible objections.
The case will, therefore, be likely handled by a different judicial district in Prague.
This is despite the fact that Ms Králová has twice acquitted Jana Nečasová, formerly Nagyová
for the alleged misuse of military intelligence to surveil the first wife of Prime Minister Nečas.
Tluchoř was not involved in this case.
According to the lawyer, Jaroslav Ortman, this is an unnecessary knee-jerk reaction.
I think that the principle of impartiality should not be interpreted in a way that would exclude a court if a witness's spouse or relative works at the courthouse.
I am afraid that this would preclude almost any prosecution, he said in a newspaper interview.
"I find it completely over the top," he added.
Mr Tluchoř's co-accused in this case of political cronyism is Roman Boček, a former official.
According to his lawyer, Petr Toman, a potential objection may have a chance to succeed.
On 13 June, the District Court for Prague 1 discussed the indictment of the former chief of staff of the Prime Minister Petr Nečas, Jana Nagyová (today Nečasová) and the other accused in the case of misuse of military intelligence.
Ms Nečasová is pictured arriving at the court with her husband.
Ms Tluchořová was meant to judge statements about Peroutka.
The wife of the former MP was, for example, scheduled to judge a case involving the statements of the Czech President, Miloš Zeman about the democratic pre-war journalist Ferdinand Peroutka.
Zeman said about him that he was a Hitler sympathiser.
