A dream job for six figure salary.
A well-paid job without a university degree.
This is the job of an IT specialist at first sight
and often the second.
The advantage is not only the extremely high salary by Czech standards (in Prague, IT specialists can make up to CZK 180,000), but also very attractive benefits.
The reason is the enormous shortage of IT specialists.
The economy needs thousands of IT experts
It is estimated that the Czech Republic needs 20,000 IT specialists.
According to the recruitment agency Grafton, most sought-after are programmers, developers, network engineers and application specialists.
Candidates can choose from several job offers.
The demand is considerably higher than the supply and employers compete for candidates, said Jitka Součková, the marketing manager of Grafton Recruitment.
University is not a must.
Higher education is not a must for IT professionals.
Higher education is a good foundation and overall indicator of intelligence and education of the candidate, but it does not tend to have much in common with the knowledge of development.
Developers must constantly learn new things, which cannot be substituted by just completing a university, says Petr Kubačka, director of Monster Career CZ.
IT professionals earn the highest salaries in Prague.
IT professional salaries are everywhere well above the national average.
The highest salaries are paid in Prague and Brno. The salaries in the regions are somewhat lagging behind.
The salary levels in Brno are comparable with those in Prague," says Kubačka.
The highest salaries are earned by technical directors.
In Prague and Brno, they can make between CZK 120 000 and CZK 180 000.
In other regions, the salaries are lower, but they still do not drop below CZK 80 000.
IT project managers are also in demand.
Upon joining, that can make between CZK 60 000 and CZK 100 000.
Graduates are also in demand
While some graduates have no choice but to go straight to the employment office, this does not apply to IT specialists.
Rather than having to attract specialists from other firms, i.a. by engaging in a bidding war, companies often prefer to hire graduates.
This is because they can train them to meet their requirements
Language skills are a must
Knowledge of a foreign language is useful in any profession and IT guys need to have at least a decent knowledge of English.
Knowledge of at least one foreign language is a must for some IT positions.
On the other hand, we often come across companies, which are looking for skilled and experienced professionals with only an average knowledge of English.
According to the company's Director Mr Kubačka, it is an advantage for an IT support employee to be able to communicate in several languages because this allows him to serve more customers from different countries.
Yes, Google is heaven.
Czech employees can only envy Google staff.
They enjoy flexible working hours, option to work from home or a range of part-time opportunities, not only for mothers.
"Google offers new dads four extra weeks of holidays following the birth of their child," said Martina Joneková, a spokeswoman for Google.
Other benefits include healthcare for employees and their families, meals, transport, training, wellness or massages at the workplace.
Green light is given to those who want to continue learning irrespective of the subject.
The benefits do not stop there.
A well-stocked fridge for free is also quite something.
Healthy lunches (in some localities also breakfasts and dinners) are available at the workplace every day.
In addition, all offices feature so-called micro-kitchens, which are always well stocked with healthy snacks, revealed the spokeswoman.
To prevent waste, the employees can take home any leftovers in the evening.
And the reason for these benefits unheard of by Czech standards?
Create a creative and motivating environment!
"We at Google want to promote initiatives and projects, progress or development, ideas and innovative solutions rather than having employees sitting in the office for eight hours a day," added the spokeswoman.
