Due to his delightful and enthusiastic personality, Janis Rozentals was the first to stir up interest in fine arts among Latvians.
"In this sense he was the first love of the Latvian nation and will remain unforgettable forever," Romans Suta once wrote about the old master of Latvian painting Janis Rozentals.
Also in 2016, when opening the vast retrospective in the reconstructed main building of the Latvian National Museum of Art, it became clear that Rozentals was the first love of the Latvian art.
The exhibition opened on August 12 and since August 13 it is available for visitors and will run until October 30.
The Latvian National Museum of Art with a wide retrospection in the recently opened Great Exhibition Hall honors the painter Janis Rozentals (1866 - 1916) whose 115th birthday is mentioned internationally in UNESCO's Calendar of Events.
The retrospective, with more than 150 works of art, is one of the central events of the program for Janis Rozentals' anniversary year.
A selection of art works is mainly created from the museum collection which convincingly represents the main periods, genres, stylistic variability and diversity of the techniques of the classic's creative life.
The show is supplemented with exhibits from Akseli Gallen-Kallela Museum, the Museum of Literature and Music, the Liepaja Museum, the Tukums Museum and several private collections based in Latvia and Finland.
The mood of the turn of the century is revived with the presence of photos; the mobile app of the exhibition reveals a correlation between several art works and photos, which were taken by the painter for the needs of his creative work with his own camera.
The Rozentals Society "Rozentals-seura" promoting friendly relationships between Finland and Latvia and named after the Latvian classic, in its turn offers the first stop of a small informative traveling exhibition "With a view to Finland, with a heart in Latvia" at the Latvian National Museum of Art.
A similar exposition with explanations in English, Finnish and Swedish will be opened at the Virka gallery in Helsinki in the fall.
