Do relationships need a pause?
A long working day in which not everything has gone smoothly, or you just simply are having a bad mood: there are plenty of reasons why you'd want to "disconnect" from the entire world for a moment, a day or even longer.
Can one also take a break in relationships and have a good rest?
Or perhaps it means that teammates have to go separate ways?
Men of various ages shared their opinions on that.
Janis (23) makes his point succinctly: "I believe that if a break is needed in a relationship you're just not with the right person."
Meanwhile, Eduards (30) has discovered a method which could possibly help some of you.
If you feel that a partner is getting on your nerves due to every minute issue, it is definitely the right time to start looking around in order to understand, whether you miss him or her or, perhaps, you don't think much about of them or even do not want to see them ever again.
So, the answer is : yes, a pause can help to save time and understand how important the other person is to you.
Kaspars (29) reveals his theory.
In my opinion, there must be breaks in relationships opposing the routine, because if you're with someone 24/7, some arguments are inevitable.
They are triggered by the fact that you see every tiny detail of the partner's activities and it starts getting on your nerves.
People grow tired of each other, especially if they don't have anything else to talk about apart from what you've done during the day.
I am judging from my personal experience and it is the reason none of my relationships lasted for more than a few months.
If at some moment you think that it could be better somewhere else or with someone else, why would this woman, with whom you are together, deserve a person like you, who is able to think that it is not good enough here and somewhere there, behind the mountains, the grass is certainly greener?
Such thinking is almost a petty form of cheating.
If it does not work, it is not worth trying.
"I practice it, therefore I somewhat condemn those who do not," says Edmunds (46).
Karlis (33) has a completely opposite view.
I think that everybody needs a break.
You cannot just sit and look into your partner's eyes every day, from morning till evening and rejoice at never-ending love.
Wake up!
There are so many things around us: friends, work, partying.
Everything has its proper time.
Of course, also for your girlfriend or wife, but if both partners are able to keep that balance between family life and the rest of the world, then one can have the "happily ever after".
This is the only way.
Martins (27) says: "It is hard to say whether one needs or does not need a break, but one thing is clear: for the person who requests the "break" something is certainly missing in the relationship."
If this idea arises, one must look for changes in the nearest future, be they to good or bad, and it depends on the persons involved.
I think that breaks are useful when you're young and crazy, be it all the time if needed, but later when it gets serious and relationships enter another phase, you cannot have any "restful pauses".
You are making a decision to spend the rest of your lives together!
"If you cannot stand each other's company and need a break every now and then, what will happen when you retire as seniors spending their time commenting on cats' behavior or what's the best day to weed the garden," Kristaps (19) explains.
All names in the article have been changed.
