The President who avoided the spotlight: 145th anniversary of Gustavs Zemgals
On Friday, August 12, we commemorate 145 years since the birth of Gustavs Zemgals, the second President of Latvia.
Zemgals was among those who declared the statehood of Latvia but later remained undeservedly overshadowed by the oft-mentioned first President of Latvia, Janis Cakste, as well as the last pre-war period President, Karlis Ulmanis.
No other politician has defended democracy and the rule of law as did Zemgals, Arnolds Auzins writes in his book about Gustavs Zemgals that was published a decade ago.
In conversation with "Delfi", Auzins notes that Zemgals was one of the few high-ranking politicians endowed with a good sense of humor.
By comparison, others appear quite stiff and concerned about "correctness".
Zemgals knew how to be different and nowadays we might draw a parallel to Raimonds Vejonis.
"He was a person who didn't lose touch with the nation," Auzins says.
Today's politicians' knowledge of history is lacking: they refer to Karlis Ulmanis as the good leader, but very few seem to know about his hot-headed personality.
The only person at whom Ulmanis did not yell during government meetings was General Janis Balodis.
Even if Ulmanis is all smiles and kindness in photos, he in fact displayed some "hysterical" traits.
"Zemgals, with his sense of humor and democratic personality leaves the exactly opposite impression," explains Auzins.
Professor Aivars Stranga from the Faculty of History and Philosophy of the University of Latvia, in a conversation with "Delfi", agrees with Auzins' evaluation of Zemgals as a calm and level-headed statesman.
Stranga also notes that Zemgals has stood out from the crowd with a respectful attitude towards minorities and quite frequently invited members of the Jewish community to visit the Presidential Palace.
"This had not been a common practice, and after Zemgals' presidency, this tradition was continued by Alberts Kviesis," the historian tells.
[Zemgals] was a quiet and even-tempered as a person, so it took quite a long time to convince him to become the president.
It wasn't really his aspiration, nor did he crave fame.
He was also a rather harsh critic of himself because he did not speak French, what he believed was a must for the country's president.
"He did however learn basic French during his presidency," Stranga adds.
Zemgals could not be convinced to run for another term, and he didn't saw high-ranking positions as a suitable pursuit.
But by all means, he remains a very respected personality in the history of Latvia and had held an esteemed job even before becoming president, namely as a highly-demanded notary public.
Zemgals also headed the famous Zemgals cash-office at number 3 Suvorova Street, where a savings brokers and credit-savings association was located; it was there the Republic of Latvia was actually created in discussions among the founding fathers.
His views were unremittingly progressive.
Not a huge admirer of Ulmanis, he however did not argue against him publicly.
"Nevertheless, he occasionally revealed in private conversations his discontent with Ulmanis' course of actions," Stranga points out.
He led a peaceful life, and there are no suspicions whatsoever about involvement in illegal issues or corruption.
How is Zemgals remembered today?
Unfortunately, many people only know the Riga street named after Zemgals.
He was committed to democratic views and held a generally centrist beliefs.
"There were no large turmoils during his time in office, namely, he could be associated with a truly stable presidency," Stranga sums up.
During Gustavs Zemgals' presidency, from 1927 to 1930, a state visit to Sweden took place, which for Latvia additionally reconfirmed the recognition of its sovereignty by the neighboring country as well as having been accepted into the community of the Northern European democratic nations.
Zemgals' state visit to Stockholm started on May 28, 1929.
The return visit of Gustaf V, the King of Sweden, took place on June 29, 1929.
The second President of Latvia was born in 1871 and passed away in January 1939.
