Riga Free Port has implemented all recommendations suggested by State Control regarding Krievu Island project.
The Riga Free Port administration has implemented all five recommendations by the State Control (SC) concerning the transfer of port activities away from the city center within the project "Infrastructure development of the Krievu Island Port", the company informed portal Diena.lv.
The project approval is expected at the nearest Riga Free Port's board meeting.
For the recommendations to be implemented in compliance with the SC wishes, the Riga Free Port administration, when preparing the necessary documentation, followed also the conclusions and provided recommendations for project supervision improvements in the further stages of the project, contained in the legal and operational audit carried out by the international auditors Deloitte at the Riga Free Port administration.
Information about the implementation of recommendations today was sent also to the SC.
Regardless of the fact that the Riga Free Port administration does not agree with the SC's prepared opinion concerning the usefulness of implementation of the Krievu Island project, we have a very responsible approach toward the project implementation and our funding provider, the European Commission (EC).
I want to emphasize that the construction works that were planned within the framework of the project, have been completely finished at the stipulated deadlines and at the planned level.
"In order to prove to all parties involved in the project implementation, including the EC and SC and also stevedores, that the main goal of the free port is to implement the project successfully, we have completely implemented all SC's recommendations concerning the issues of project management and supervision," the manager of the Krievu Island project, Sanita Kaire, points out.
The current long-term operation plan was supplemented with the most important planned activities of the stakeholders and deadlines for necessary decisions, definitions of meetings and regular reports, supervision tools for the planned construction process and definitions of the most important milestones, in order to control and monitor the progress toward the project's goal.
The approved action plan for achieving the project's goal by December 31, 2018, was supplemented with performance monitoring activities pursuant to the SC's recommendations thus enhancing the Riga Free Port's control over the deadlines for activities of other stakeholders of the project implementation.
In order to improve management and reduce potential risks, a new project management plan was elaborated by defining project management areas and indicating the prepared documents that put in place controls and monitoring mechanisms for each of them.
In order to increase project capacity, a project management chart reflecting the planned project management team's structure, staff qualifications and functions has been elaborated.
In order to improve the Riga Free Port communication with project stakeholders, a communication plan has been elaborated, which in addition to the parties specified in the project's action plan additionally defines the stakeholders, necessary for a successful completion of the project, the principles, types and frequency of information exchange.
Also, in order to improve the control of usage of funding, the necessity for entering into a service contract or starting a procurement, as well as the legal basis for both, will have to be specified in more detail.
Port-related infrastructure, i.e., four new deep water quays, access railroads and utilities, all meeting world-standard requirements , has been built within the framework of the project at the Krievu Island.
Buildings co-financed by the cohesion fund were completed and put into operation at the end of last year thus saving 10.6 million euros from the allocated funding.
