Islamic State has abducted 2,000 civilians in Syria.
The combatants for the Islamic State fleeing from Manbij, Aleppo Governorate in Syria, have captured about 2,000 civilians who are being used as human shields, the US-supported Kurdish and Arab alliance and observers reported on Friday.
"We did not shoot at them, because they took civilians with them when fleeing to Jarabulus," press officer of the Kurdish Manbij Military Council announced.
After two months of clashes, the Democratic Forces of Syria (QSD) led by Kurds, which is a US-supported Kurdish/Arabic alliance in the north of Syria, announced on Friday that Manbij has been freed from jihadists.
The Islamic State occupied Manbij in 2014.
QSD drove away the majority of Islamic State fighters from Manbij last week, but some of them remained and resisted.
Eventually, they left the city on Friday together with their hostages.
Islamic jihadists are heading for Jarabulus, which is located near the border with Turkey.
The London-based Syrian activists' organization Syrian Observatory for Human Rights (SOHR) also reported that the Islamic State has abducted approximately 2,000 people.
The SOHR informed that jihadists stole cars of the city's residents, forced them to get into the cars and then took them to Jarabulus.
It is not the first time Islamic jihadists carry out a large-scale abduction.
In January, when taking control of territories in the Deir ez-Zor Governorate in eastern Syria, jihadists abducted more than 400 civilians, women and children included.
Later they released approximately 270 of the hostages.
There is no information about the number of IS members who fled Manbij.
The press officer of the Kurdish Manbij Military Council told that the QSD has managed to rescue 2,500 people that were held prisoners by islamists in Manbij.
Information gathered by SOHR shows that at least 437 civilians, 105 children among them, have lost their lives during the Manbij offensive.
299 QSD soldiers and 1019 jihadists were killed.
