600,000 salmon smolts to be released in the Daugava.
Within the framework of AS Latvenergo's fish stock recovery program, salmon and sea trout smolts will be released in the Daugava near Mangalsala this week. This year it is planned to release more than 600,000 one year old salmon and sea trout smolts grown in the "Tome" and "Dole" fisheries of the scientific institute Bior.
Latvenergo informed news agency LETA that the fish release is going to continue also in the upcoming months: a total of 6,300,000 smolts and larvae of various species are released in the Daugava basin system annually.
In spring 2016 and beginning of summer, pike and lamprey larvae will be released, as well as whitefish in June, summer salmon in July, and pike perches and vimbas in August and September.
The production director of Latvenergo, Maris Kunickis said that care about the environment is one of sustainable development milestones of the holding company Latvenergo.
"When implementing measures of fish stock protection and replenishing, every activity is aimed at environmentally friendly goals, in a close cooperation with the scientific institute Bior for growing fish and releasing them in the Daugava basin as well as implementing other activities," Kunickis pointed out.
More than 600,000 one year old salmon and sea trout smolts will be released in the Daugava estuary this year.
This is the second year when smolts to be released are marked by cutting off the adipose fin.
In today's cargo there are 25,000 salmon smolts with 31.3 grams average weight.
Fish smolts and larvae in scientifically substantiated composition of species are released in the Daugava and its tributaries each year.
Fish stock propagation in Daugava and other watercourses of its basin pursuant to the laws and regulations is carried out by Bior on the basis of expertise of damage caused to fish stock resulting from Latvenergo's industrial activity and an opinion is formulated on what compensation measures are to be taken to ensure fish stock diversity.
The State Environment Bureau, on the basis of said expertise, adopts a decision on the amount and type of compensation.
The total annual compensation from Latvenergo for the fish stock recovery program amounts to 1,035,000 euros.
In spring 2016, Latvenergo cooperated with the association "Mes zivim" (We for fish) to create 400 artificial fish spawning areas in the Daugava near Kaibala and Ikskile, for the fifth year already.
The cooperation with the association, promoting natural spawning of fish, is an initiative additionally supported by Latvenergo within the framework of fish stock recovery.
The placement of artificial spawning nests in a water-reservoir is an important measure for enhancing fish stock protection and growth in the Daugava.
