LSF president Pone went to Rio with a coach's accreditation; he is surprised at that himself.
The Latvian Swimming Federation's (LSF) president Kaspars Pone, who has recently become ill-famed, has arrived at Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games with a coach's accreditation; nevertheless, he is surprised at that.
On Wednesday, a wide a hullabaloo was raised after the statements of Germans Jakubovskis, the coach of olympic swimmer Alona Ribakova, revealing that in the last minute Pone decided to go to Rio de Janeiro while the coach had to stay home.
Alona Ribakova and Ulvis Kalnins, coaches Jakubovskis and Dave Collins as well as the federation's president Pone were in the initial list.
The Latvian Swimming Federation applied with five participants for the Olympic Games and just before the flight Aldons Vrublevskis assured that Mr Germans will go and tickets are being booked.
"But obviously due to objective reasons he did not manage to go," Pone said by expressing an opinion that it did not affect Ribakova's result.
At the request of the federation the coach of Uvis had agreed to help her.
Pone, who is a member of the LOC executive committee, harshly criticized LOC's activities when they blamed the organization supervising the Olympic sports.
I believe that it is unethical to confirm five persons with the LOC executive committee and then not to take them all to the Olympics.
"I don't know why there were no vacant places for the Swimming Federation," Pone said, adding that the society does not value the work of the Federation and their presidents and reminded that the federations' presidents do not receive a salary.
Pone also criticized Jakubovskis, stating that before the Olympic Games in London when Ribakova was not among the approved participants, he addressed the International Water Sports Federation (IWSF) and called Latvia not to send any athletes.
Pone could not comment why he arrived to the Olympic Games with a coach's accreditation, which, most probably, was meant for Jakubovskis.
"I was declared as the team leader, but due to reasons unknown to me I received a coach's accreditation and now I cannot get in anywhere.''
The situation changed every day, and the number of available accreditations also changed.
Until the last minute I thought that Mr German will come, because I had no other information.
According to the information possessed by LETA, several days before Ribakova's start she spoke tête-à-tête with Pone and afterwards the swimmer had tears in her eyes, yet the president of LSF himself told that it was a routine conversation aimed at putting the sportswoman in the right mood before the start.
Pone reminded that the LSF supervises five sports disciplines, which are included in the Olympic program too, and in four of them also children are being trained in Latvia.
The federation's president revealed that issues of drowning are essential for Latvia and he has spoken also about relevant programs while in Rio de Janeiro, for almost two weeks now.
He praised the work of the federation and noted that the World Championship tournament could take place in Latvia in 2018.
I have not come to Rio de Janeiro for a vacation but to do work here and spend my time trying to implement quadrennial programs.
