German researchers discuss the number of "Berlin Wall deaths".
According to a new study, the number of fatalities at the border of former Eastern Germany, greatly subdued by the Communist regime, could be considerably larger than so far believed, but doubts about the actual number of victims have not been cleared yet.
The data publicized by the Berlin Wall museum Checkpoint Charlie on Wednesday show evidence that from 1945 to 1989 the Communist authorities killed 1841 persons trying to escape the territory under their control across its border with the Western allies-controlled territory and later West Germany.
The museum has spent years researching the deaths related to the border, and it occasionally updates the number of victims.
Another 11 fatalities were added to the list this year, including a six year old boy who drowned when his family tried to get to Western Germany through former Czechoslovakia and Hungary.
Soviet Army deserters are also included in a new group of Berlin Wall victims.
"The scale of total damage, caused by the double evil of Communism and Socialism has not been fully documented," director of the museum, Alexandra Hildebrandt, admits.
"Our task is to make sure that the graves of those who died trying to escape the Communist-controlled country would be maintained and not lost", emphasizes Hildebrandt in her public report.
But other researchers have already contested the new numbers.
"The number of 1841 is unconvincing," the East Germany history expert Johann Stadt from the Free University of Berlin stated in an interview to Süddeutsche Zeitung.
Together with other researchers of the Free University of Berlin, he currently reviews other alleged suspicious fatalities near the border and so far they have managed confirm only 260 cases.
Previously researchers assumed that the Communists had killed 138 persons at the Berlin Wall.
Stadt believes that if one counts those who have died when trying to escape by the Baltic Sea or by traveling to the West trough a neighboring country's territory the number of victims could reach approximately one thousand.
At any rate, it is considerably less than the 1841.
Different methodologies could be one reason for the different numbers of victims.
The Checkpoint Charlie museum also counts in all suicides of East German border guards, whether or not related to their service.
The museum also counts the fatalities not related to direct use of force.
"If seniors aged 70 to 80 died from a heart attack after a stressful contact with the border control," it also must be considered a consequence of the "murderous border", Hildebrandt believes.
But Stadt is sure that one must differentiate between the old people who, possibly, died due to the attitude and conduct towards them and those who died due to protracted waiting inside a bus at the border in time of hot weather.
Notwithstanding that, it is not easy to count the victims, because the authorities of the communist East Germany did not gather such statistics , so researchers must examine documents in various scattered archives, Stadt points out.
Yet, Stadt's group recently has found more documents, therefore he might soon announce his new calculation of victims.
