"Sansusi Concert Hall" festival offers country house, forest and tree-felling experience.
You sleep in a tent, eat like in restaurant, walk in sneakers and listen to fine chamber music and at the same time enjoy the quiet and peaceful nature: this is a combination offered by the alternative chamber music festival "Sansusi", inviting visitors to the Akniste region for the third summer already.
The festival will take place in the back yard of the town council of Suseja, a village that does not exist anymore, and in the surrounding woods and tree-felling areas.
Three days, from August 12 to 14, five stages intertwine careless and exquisite enjoyment of nature and erudite music.
Here, music meets theater, contemporary circus, performance art and installations.
Opera and erudite music, especially in their newest manifestations, find new listeners in free and open environment without the typical concert hall stiffness.
The distance from here to Riga is approximately 150 km, but it's only a few minutes until there's a smile on your face and lightness in feet.
"Please, do not look for a program guide, because we have intentionally chosen not to publish it so that people do not come to see a certain event or artist, as the real taste of Sansusi can be captured only if all three days are spent here," says Armands Silins, the initiator and host of the festival, an operatic baritone.
We open the festival's gates on Friday at 5 PM, and the first concert starts at 7 PM.
Once you've arrived, you can get the program guides with all the necessary information.
For those who can come for only one day we recommend Saturday, because it is the most saturated: from 9 AM until the dawn of the next day.
"Names of the artists are available at our website www.sansusi.lv," Armands Silins tells.
The splendid roster of performers boasts such names as violin player Eva Bindere, cello player Kristine Blaumane, opera star Inga Kalna, clarinet player Guntis Kuzma, trumpet player Janis Porietis, piano player Reinis Zarins, quartets Quadra and RIX and even the Estonian air acrobat Grete Gross, who has created a contemporary circus piece called Confines portraying an artist's inner struggle and performed together with musicians Eriks Kirsfelds, Martins Zilberts and actress Ance Strazda.
Several other new pieces have also been created.
Children's performance "Bug", based of Kafka's story "The Metamorphosis" has been composed by Olesja Kozlovska and Jekabs Nimanis and will be staged with the participation of Armands Silins, musicians, actors and entomologist Ugis Piterans.
Oskars Herlins has composed his first String quartet, while Anna Kirse offers her Tree Opera, a performance with trees as its main characters arranged in three small clusters in three hectares of clear felling; it is directed by Andris Kalnozols, supplemented with Katrina Neiburga's video projections and Andris Eglitis' stage design.
Voices of Laima Ledina, Dinara Rudane and Zigmars Grasis will portray their romantic relationships just like in research "The Marriage of Trees" (1729) by the Swedish scientist Carl Linnaeus back in the Enlightenment age.
