An iota ahead of the criminal - criminal intelligence aids in solving crimes and reveals serious criminality - ESS.fi
In every 11 police departments in Finland, there has been a RTA unit (criminal intelligence and analysis unit) in operation since the beginning of 2014.
The operation of the unit is invisible to the outside.
In Häme Police Department, the unit consists of a total of four policemen in Lahti and Hämeenlinna.
It is managed by a Senior Sergeant located in Lahti.
The head of the Commanding Officers is an Inspector in Lahti.
In addition, the unit has a civilian specialising in information technology working in Hämeenlinna.
All of the unit work in plain-clothes.
The unit has proved its usability and necessity, considers Deputy Police Chief Tero Seppänen.
The RTA unit produces different kinds of reports for the rest of the Police.
In Häme it has, among other things, gathered information about asylum seekers.
The most recent method reform
Establishing the analysis units has been the most recent reform of the Police methods.
The goal has been crime prevention, so that police would less often leave, siren blaring, for the crime scene after it has been alerted.
The data gathered and analysed by the unit helps to focus the daily police activities to where they are needed the most.
With the reformation of the National Police Board, one criminal intelligence centre was founded in the country, and under it three national units with an own crime intelligence unit in each police department.
The PCB Centre in Vantaa operates in contact with the National Bureau of Investigation and manages the operations on a national level.
As the name suggests, there are people from the Police, the Customs and the Border Guard working in the PCB units.
As for RTA units, they work on areas divided according to police departments, and their duty is to offer data both to local police forces and national units.
Intelligence extends outside the own area
Where a single police officer knows, what has happened during their 12-hour work shift, the task of an RTA unit is to know, what is going on in the whole are of a police department.
Intelligence also extends outside the own department’s borders, since so does the crime.
Those working in an RTA unit have better IT skills than a rank and file police officer.
The unit aims to call the Police's attention to new phenomena, productive criminals or crimes resembling each other by using registers, alarm assignment database, and observations.
This is called serialisation, and it is one of the most important tools in criminal intelligence.
All people have their own way of operating.
The hand of a person can be seen also in their work, be it honest or criminal.
Based on the technique, a certain image is formed of the person.
Serialisation can be performed either based on the technique or on the person, depending on which the police have more information on.
Criminals learn from their mistakes
The employees in an RTA unit do not walk around with their collars turned up, but their work is not completely public, either.
They do not tell about the methods used by them or by the criminals, because this could result in the professional criminals developing their operations and thus seeking to foil the police’s crime prevention attempts.
The police will publicly share the methods, if they anticipate a threat from them.
One such case was the way of marking empty apartments that was used in break-ins and was reported in the beginning of the summer.
In this method, the criminals marked the front door with a stick, a pin or a piece of tape to test, whether the occupants were really away.
Pre-trial investigation material is public at least for the parties involved.
The analysis unit has observed that the most professional criminals learn from their mistakes.
The most clever ones order the District Court official record that can for example reveal that there were fingerprints found from the scene.
The next time, the thieves will use gloves.
Deputy Police Chief Tero Seppänen from Häme Police Department, Inspector Tuomo Lepola from Eastern Finland Police Department, Detective Inspector Sami Joutjärvi from Joensuu police station, and Detective Superintendent Arto Tuomela from National Bureau of Investigation were interviewed for this story.
The Police gathers and analyses date that is used in planning the practical operations.
On the background is the reduction of workforce and funding.
The first steps toward new workings were taken already 30 years ago.
The latest change was a three-stage PORA reform that finished by the end of year 2013.
Information beyond the borders of one's own department and of Finland is gathered with national cooperation.
