One of the Latvian team's most visible members, heptathlonist Laura Ikauniece-Admidina, starts her participation at the Rio de Janeiro Olympics today.
Ikauniece-Admidina at3:35 PM Latvian time will participate in 100-meter hurdles, and at4:50 PM she is doing high jump.
Then, during the early hours of Saturday, at2:35 AM shot put will begin, and at4:05 AM, the 200-meter sprint.
The heptathlon events finish on Saturday with long jump, javelin and 800 meters as the last disciplines.
Ikauniece-Admidina, who won bronze in last year's world championship, was mentioned as a candidate for winning an Olympic medal before the games began.
The Latvian achieved a new national record in May (6622 points) and won the second place in the prestigious heptathlon event in Gotzis, Austria.
Ikauniece-Admidina participated at the London Olympic Games in 2012, attaining the 9th place with a repeated Latvian national record.
During the last 18 months the athlete has broken the national record four times.
Today at4 PM, the Latvian judo fighter Arturs Nikiforenko will participate in a contest in the weight division over 100 kg, meeting the Azerbaijani athlete Usangi Kukauri in the first round.
It will be the first Olympic Games in our judo fighter's career.
NThe news agency LETA previously reported that the Latvian judo fighter Jevgenijs Borodavko lost his first fight in the division over 100 kg on Thursday.
He was overcome by the Japanese judoka Ryunosuke Haga, who eventually won bronze.
Back in the year 2000, Vsevolods Zelonijs brought Olympic bronze to Latvia, but during the consequent four Olympic Games Latvian judo fighters have won only one in seven fights, accomplished by Borodavko in London.
At4:30 PM Latvian, time Dainis Upelnieks will start clay target shooting qualification round, a selection that concludes on Saturday.
Upelnieks was officially confirmed to participate in the Olympics only on the day when the composition of the Latvian team was unveiled, yet he later told LETA he had been rather sure of going to the Olympics already since April.
He was among the first Latvian athletes to arrive at the Olympic Games location and tried to make the most of the training opportunities in the venue's shooting-ground.
At7:05 PM Latvian time, three concluding races will be performed by an Olympic Games debutante, the 17 year old Latvian Ketija Birzule, who competes in windsurfing in the RS:X class.
After three days of sailing, i.e., in nine races and their total score considered, Birzule has taken the 25th place among the 26 participants.
The decisive final race for medals is taking place on Saturday.
The rowing is finally expected to take place today, in which Latvian Sanita Puspure will represent Ireland.
On Wednesday, this race was postponed due to unfavorable weather.
Puspure will compete in theC/D women's single sculls semifinal for the 13th place at the Olympics at 7:10 PM.
At Tuesday's quarter-final, she won the fourth place stepping down from the third position she held, which would have allowed her to poise for a medal - however, she fell behind by a mere 0.65 seconds.
Puspure won the 13th place four years ago at the London Olympics, where she also represented Ireland.
24 sets of medals will be granted in today's Olympic events: archery, track and field, track cycling, equestrian, fencing, diving, judo, rowing, shooting, swimming, tennis and weightlifting.
