A new way to protect the nature - buy a right to a piece of land
Helsinki Foundation has new ways to take part in nature conservation.
The Foundation, established last year, acquires ecologically significant areas of land.
After that, private people, companies, and communities can purchase Guardianship rights to a block of land.
The Foundation’s first land property is located in Lapland.
The land property is virtually subdivided into small Greenspaces, and those who want, can buy a Guardianship right to a Greenspace.
The Guardian has veto rights to their space of 187 square metres, which in practise means that if the large land block’s purpose is to be changed, a permission from each Guardian is required.
It is possible also to buy Guardianships for several Greenspaces.
Buying a Guardianship is something tangible you can pass down or give as a gift.
“There is no need to carry banners or to chain yourself to something in order to protect the nature”, explains Juha Leviäkangas, who acquired a Guardianship for his company.
Those who acquire a Guardianship get the exact co-ordinates of their Greenspace, which makes it possible for example to visit the area.
On the Foundation’s website one can see the name information of the Guardians on the same map, where the Greenspace information is.
Leviäkangas thinks the only risk in his nature conservation purchase is if the Foundation’s operations change from its original idea.
The Helsinki Foundation is a non-profit foundation established for the purpose of promoting the conservation of environment and nature.
The risk is for the Foundation to act in unethically or commercially, but it should not be possible.
The basic idea of the Helsinki Foundation’s Haltija project is to protect nature areas in a way they can stay unspoiled and at peace.
The Foundation acquires land blocks either by buying or as a donation.
It finances its operation mainly by selling Guardianships, but the Foundation received its initial capital from its founders.
The purpose of the Foundation is to acquire more protected lands.
It also has plans to go outside Finnish borders and to buy some land in Australia.
The Helsinki Foundation showcases its operations in a pop up forest at Helsinki Market Square from August 13 to 19.
