In big cities, bicycle thieves torment Turku the most - check the situation in your home town
From Finland’s big cities, Turku is the worst tormented.
This year there have been more stolen bicycles per capita than any of the other nine big cities.
Based on the bike thefts reported to the police, Helsingin Sanomat describes how many bicycles and their parts have been stolen in the ten largest cities between January and August this year per capita.
In addition to Turku, Helsinki, Oulu and Lahti were at the top of the list.
According to the police information, there were four to five bike thefts per a thousand residents.
Instead in Espoo and Kouvola, there were only about two reported bicycle thefts per a thousand residents.
That is a big difference.
“Some cities have double the amount of thefts per capita compared to others”, describes Chief Superintendent of the National Police Board, Tommi Reen.
Turku police contemplate, why the city holds the top place in the comparison.
It is extremely difficult to say, why there have been more bicycle thefts in Turku than elsewhere.
I have no answer for that.
“One factor for the frequency of thefts can be how much bike traffic there is in a city, and how many bikes there are in general”, considers Senior Sergeant Teemu Äikäs.
Tommi Reen from the National Police Board says it could be well expected to see Turku, Helsinki, and Oulu to rise to the top in the comparison.
The number of bicycle thefts largely follow those cities, where people study and where they cycle.
Turku has a compact centre, short distances, and plenty of bikes available for the thieves.
“For example Espoo is a completely different city, where city centres are far from each other, and bicycle is not necessarily the primary mode of transport”, Reen says.
In the whole of Finland between January and August, there have been slightly less bike thefts reported to the police than during the corresponding period last year.
There is still no great reason for joy.
Despite the downward trend in recent years, there are still a bit over 20,000 bike thefts reported to the police annually.
That means 50-60 bikes every day, and just in Helsinki, about 4000 bikes per year.
“These numbers are big”, Reen says.
In truth, the thieves take even more bikes, because only a part of the victims report a theft to the police.
Reen encourages people to report bike thefts, even if less than one in every ten reported cases are solved.
A typical solved bike theft is a case, where the police is immediately notified of the theft, and the thief is caught right away.
“Cases are solved also in connection to other investigation, like for example when in a drug case there can be stolen bicycles found in an apartment”, Reen tells.
In Helsinki, bike thieves are caught every week either red-handed or during a police investigation, says Senior Constable Timo Leppämäki.
According to him, bicycles are stolen for example from a shopping centre bicycle stands, from courtyards, storerooms and bicycle basements, so practically from everywhere people usually store them.
As to the individual bike models, the most stolen is Jopo, just like in previous years.
A U-lock gives a bicycle better protection than many other locks.
Some thieves take a bicycle for example for their own, brief use, but most of the stolen bicycles end up for sale for example online.
The stay in the home market.
“At least it hasn’t come to the police's knowledge that stolen bicycles hardly go abroad”, Reen says.
Buyers of stolen bikes are normal Finnish people, according to the police.
Some probably buy a stolen bike without knowing.
Some may have doubts about it.
A used bike buyer must be cautious, because they could commit a concealment offence or a criminal concealment.
“The alarm bells should be ringing, if a bicycle in good condition is being sold dirt cheap”, Reen says.
Special library assistant Severi Hirvi always carries his colourful Nopsa to a shelter provided by library of Kallio in Helsinki for the duration of his working day.
He has had five bikes, but none have been stolen, says Hirvi. “Never have been taken, so in that sense I've been really lucky.”
“Maybe this isn’t so tempting for the thieves, this doesn’t necessarily even have any hipster value”, contemplates Hirvi, who lives in Helsinki.
Siiri Valve, who briefly did business in a kiosk in Kallio, Helsinki, locked her bicycle with a small U-lock.
Now bike was just leaning towards the kiosk wall, but usually Valve locks her bicycle to something solid, like a bicycle stand.
“I think about this a lot, because this bike is the most expensive thing I own”, says the Helsinki student about her white bicycle, the frame of which alone cost about 500 euros.
“I keep hearing from my friends that bikes have been taken.”
“Mostly bad bikes, these rickety Jopos.”
A bike was stolen from Valve herself from a house courtyard a year ago.
The bike was unintendedly left unlocked, so Valve knew to anticipate its theft.
