Stockmann axes up roughly 300 employees - the number of sales assistants stays the same
Nearly 300 employees are laid off from the department store company Stockmann.
The consultative negotiations in the company that has gotten into difficulties finished in the beginning of August.
“As a result of the negotiations, approximately 300 jobs will be cut, main part of the cuts will be carried out as lay-offs”, Stockmann says in its press release.
It is also said in the press release that the number of department store sales assistants will not be reduced to ensure excellent customer service.
Stockmann will also offer around 80 members of its support staff new positions as sales assistants.
Stockmann’s negotiations concerned about 3000 employees.
When they began, the need for cuts was estimated to be about 380 employees.
The cuts are expected to generate annual cost savings of roughly 20 million euros that are supposed to realise during next year.
Already earlier Stockmann has begun an efficiency programme, with which they attempt to create savings of 50 million euros this year.
On the background are Stockmann’s difficulties to make department store sales profitable.
Even though the group’s adjusted operating result improved to 11.1 million euros in the second quarter of the year, the department store sales are still unprofitable.
Lauri Veijalainen, the caretaker chief executive of Stockmann says that the sales performance of the department stores has continued to fall short of expectations.
“Personnel reductions are unfortunately a necessary step to ensure that Stockmann’s retail division achieves a positive result in 2018”, Veijalainen says in the press release.
The improved second-quarter result is particularly a consequence of the solid performance of fashion chain Lindex.
The chain reported the best second-quarter turnover and result in its history.
Lindex’s profit increased 9.5 million euros to 28.1 million euros.
At the same time last year, the operating result of the whole Stockmann Group had a loss of 4.1 million.
Stockmann estimates that the Group's turnover this year will be smaller than last year.
The adjusted operating result is expected to be slightly positive this year.
