Clinton promises relief to U.S. families with children
In the United States, the Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton shared details of his economic policy on Thursday evening.
I aim to be the President, so that the U.S. economy would be good for everyone.
“Donald Trump aims to be the President, so that the economy would be good for him and his friends”, Clinton said in her speech.
In the centre of Clinton’s plan is a massive five-year, 275-billion dollar plan to improve United States’ infrastructure, roads, bridges, and airfields.
This would be financed partly with tax increases for the rich, partly with private money.
This building programme is a friendly gesture to American workers who suffered as factories were transferred to countries with cheap labour.
Clinton called this programme the greatest investment in well-paid jobs since the Second World War.
We are a nation of builders, we must return to building!
Clinton said.
On Thursday, Clinton also promised to ease the situation of working families with children.
On Thursday, she sounded like Sanders anyway as she emphasised that the rich should pay their fair share of the taxes.
And if a company leaves the United States as a tax exile, it should pay a leaving tax, Clinton said.
Nowadays she opposes the Trans-Pacific Partnership she used to support.
“[As the President,] I will oppose all those trade agreements that work against employees or wages”, Clinton promised.
According to the speculations published by The Washington Post before Clinton’s speech, Clinton was going to criticise the economic platform by Republican Donald Trump published on Monday about it “only favours millionaires like him”.
Clinton has previously called Trump’s suggestion of a whacking tax cut to corporation taxes “his loophole”.
On Thursday, Clinton emphasised that she herself is a daughter of a small entrepreneur.
She reminded the listeners about small entrepreneurs, whose invoices Trump has left unpaid, and about clothes, Trump himself fabricates in China and Mexico.
“If he wants to make America great again, he should start by manufacturing products in America himself”, Clinton mocked.
