The price of the food in Finland drops clearly faster than the EU average
Food becomes strikingly cheaper in Finland - a source of joy for consumers and of annoyance to producers.
The price of food in Finland has dropped nearly 5 per cent in three years, when the average price drop in EU countries was 0.9 per cent.
At the same time food in Germany and Sweden is one per cent more expensive.
During the last three years, the price of food in Finland has dropped the second most in those EU countries that have the same wage level than Finland.
From the analogue countries’ only Britain’s food prices have gone down faster than in Finland.
This data was shown in an article by senior adviser Ilkka Lehtinen from Statistics Finland that was published in Tieto & Trendit (Data & Trends) blog.
Lehtinen compared real prices, prices that are in proportion to the general development of the consumer prices.
The latest data is from June this year.
In the beginning of the 2010s, the price of the food rose sharply.
In 2013, the prices rose close to the price level of 1994.
The situation was alarming.
“We were close to losing that price advantage we got from EU membership”, Lehtinen says.
Then a change followed, after which food has become cheaper year by year.
Now the price is weighed down by the food import prohibitions set by Russia that brought food import from Finland to Russia to a standstill.
That is why the supply of dairy and meat products has increased in the Finnish market, and the producer prices have dropped.
“Putin’s policies have helped the Finnish consumer in the short term”, says Lehtinen.
Also the competition between industry and trade has stepped up and affected the price drop.
The large chains, S Group and Kesko, have both reduced their prices.
For the consumer the price competition has appeared as impressive advertising campaigns.
Finland still is no seat of affordable nourishment, even though the price of the food has dropped significantly.
In 2015, the food prices in Finland were the fourth most expensive from those EU countries that have the same kind of wage level than Finland.
According to Lehtinen, the food prices in Finland are considerably affected by the value-added tax.
He discovered that if the control countries would have the same percentage of value-added tax, Finland would have the third cheapest food from the countries that have the same wage level.
Lehtinen compared Finland with Denmark, Sweden, Austria, France, Italy, Britain, Germany, and the Netherlands.
If the value-added tax in the control countries would be seven, only the Germans and the Dutch would sell cheaper food than the Finns.
“If we want to get to the same food price level with the old EU countries, we have to halve the value-added tax to the average EU country level, and to continue price competition”, Lehtinen writes.
Lehtinen points out that the calculations he did with the value-added tax percentage are approximate.
