This is what Rio’s ratings look like: Apparently the competition hasn’t managed to glue Finns to their screens, but the mobile application is interesting
Usually sporting events are shown as sharp peaks in television ratings.
So far, the Rio Olympic games haven’t reached huge viewer ratings.
At a time the games have glued 12 per cent of the population to their screens at its best: swimming on Yle’s Olympic channel, TV2, on Tuesday night was followed by 615,000 viewers.
For the sake of comparison: the European Athletics Championships a month ago got almost 800,000 viewers at a time, and UEFA European Championships’ number was well over a million.
So far, the most interesting Olympic sports have been cycling on Sunday evening and artistic gymnastics that opened the fifth game day. Both of these reached almost half a million viewers at a time on the Olympic channel.
The head of Yle Sport, Panu Pokkinen, is satisfied with the ratings and notes that for the first time ever, the viewers are divided between several different devices.
In addition to television, Finns follow the Olympics from Rio Areena.
We are satisfied with how many TV viewers choose the Olympics in the first place.
Even on the television side, the viewers are divided between TV2 and Yle Fem channels.
Rio Olympics is the first sporting event Yle has dedicated a whole channel to.
When there is broadcast 24 hours a day, and there are 20,000 to 500,000 viewers all the time, it’s a good basis.
The viewer ratings are lower than in London 2012 or Beijing 2008, but one reason for this is the time difference - most of the Rio games are broadcast in Finland during the night time.
Another reason for the tame interest - if someone thinks it’s tame - surely is the traditional Finnish reason: if Finland had won a surprising medal early on, the interest would’ve surely jumped with it.
In addition, the athletics is only just beginning, as well as other sports that interest Finns: sailing and riding.
According to Pokkinen, the ratings of the beginning were close to what was expected.
When the athletics begin, the ratings explode.
Yle launched a Yle Rio 2016 mobile application for the games, and during the first game days it became Apple App Store's most downloaded free application in Finland.
By Monday, the application had been downloaded 150,000 times.
I guess that now we're somewhere around 200,000 downloads.
“We will get the online ratings only later”, says Pokkinen.
Rio Areena has not worked as desired with all the users.
Pokkinen says they've had feedback and have managed to fix the bugs.
The use of Rio Areena has included time lag and other small, technical issues in the beginning.
There are now updated versions of the applications that should fix these bugs.
Rio Olympics have a wider coverage on Yle’s channels and in Areena than any other sporting event ever before.
Some sports can be followed on Yle Fem channel, and in Yle Puhe in radio broadcasts the games daily.
In addition for the Olympics being possible the most laborious ever for Yle, they are also the last one that can be followed only from Yle channels.
From the year 2018 onwards Olympic sports can be seen both on Yle and on commercial channels.
