Where is everyone?
The athletics stadium in Rio is empty
Indeed, where is everyone?
They are certainly not at the Rio Olympic stadium watching athletics.
The battle for athletics medals in Rio began on Friday, but the world’s top individuals got to showcase their talents to confusingly empty stands.
The organisers of Rio told on Friday that only 58 per cent of the first day's morning competition tickets and 65 per cent of the evening competition tickets have been sold.
The situation was different four years ago in London, where the stadium was bursting with cheering people.
The finals ticket are sold out already also at Rio.
The spectator loss at Rio Olympics has attracted attention already before athletics.
There have been thousands of empty seats for example in rugby, canoeing, and riding stands.
When the Brazilian medal hopefuls Talita Antunes and Larissa Franca played beach volley at legendary Copacabana, only 70 per cent of the stands were full.
After the Brazilian duo, the Netherlands played against Russia, and only about 30 per cent of the stands that seat 12.000 people were full.
The bad sales are partly explained by the fact that Brazil with its economic difficulties is far away for the European and Asian Olympic tourists, and many of the Olympic sports are strange to Brazilians, who are accustomed to football.
However, not even the first match of the Brazilian football team managed to fill the football stadium.
The spokesman for the game organisers, Mario Andrada, said this weekend that at that time, 82 per cent of the tickets had been sold, a number that is clearly smaller than four years ago.
“There are still 1.1 million tickets left to be sold”, Andrada said according to Reuters.
From the 8.5 million tickets in the London Olympics 8.2 million were sold, even though they were almost half more expensive than in Rio.
In Rio, the ticket prices have varied from about nine euros to over a thousand euros for the opening.
Over half of the tickets cost under 16 euros.
In London Olympics, the voluntary workers and army personnel were allowed to sit on the empty seats, but in Rio this has not been allowed yet, as the organisers need money and attempt to sell the tickets until the very last moment.
However, in Rio, the organisers have given school children 240.000 tickets for those sports that are less known in the country, like gold and rugby.
There were plenty of empty seats in the Rio Stadium in the morning.
Even beach volley at the sands of Copacabana did not interest the audience.
Jukka Keskisalo competed in London in 2012.
There were plenty of people at the stands, then.
