Luxury flat in a new development in Vinohrady has a swimming pool and hot tub on the terrace.
Why did you opt for a flat in a new development?
We were looking for a worry-free flat with a property manager looking after the property.
Among our must-have features was ample parking and a lift, which basically ruled out older buildings.
Not to mention the problematic acoustics in old houses, rocking floors, high energy consumption, etc.
We also wanted a large terrace, which older buildings do not tend to have.
You will find more about other interesting properties we visited in the magazine "Moderní byt" [modern flat].
The entire interior was designed by the architect Lenka Langerová and her colleague Kamila Polaková from the interior design studio Artigo.
Why did not choose them?
Would you recommend this approach to everyone?
We would recommend using the services of an architect to anyone who is designing a flat from the scratch, because it is a very complex technical process.
The second level is the actual interior design: designers have a much better idea about the range of available materials, and they are able to make it all work based on the wishes of the client.
We have already worked with Lenka Langerová on our flat in the mountains based on a recommendation from another client and because everything worked well we decided to approach her to work on the reconstruction of our new flat in Vinohrady.
What were your practical and aesthetic requirements?
We wanted a generous entertaining-living space with adequate facilities for a family of four, conceived as a modern yet not impersonal interior.
The priority was to create a visual and functional link between the flat and the terraces and to implement smart home features.
Not least it was also important to safeguard the quality of execution.
Did you leave everything to the experts or did you have a say in the final look of the interior?
We approved all designs including technical drawings but the designs were always created by the architects.
At the beginning, we specified what we expect from design, and we have shown the architects some elements, such as carpets or paintings which we wanted to see integrated into the design.
I think that our collection of mostly Czech paintings, including the works by Karel Malich, Karel Vysušil, Václav Špála or Otto Gutfreund helped the architects to get a feel for our taste.
The combination of black, white and nutwood was the brainchild of the architect as well as individual pieces of furniture, walls, flooring, lighting, carpets, fabrics, art, etc. We then used visualisations to make sure everything worked well together. The combination of black, white and nutwood was the brainchild of the architect as well as individual pieces of furniture, walls, flooring, lighting, carpets, fabrics, art, etc. We then used visualisations to make sure everything worked well together.
Did you encounter any complications during the realisation phase, which forced you to abandon some of the original ideas or come up with new ones?
Perhaps only at the beginning of the project, when we arrived at the construction site and were able for the first time to get to our floor only to find out that the views we envisaged will be blocked by surrounding buildings.
This forced us to change the layout plans literally overnight.
You have used granite on kitchen countertops and fireplace tiling.
The interior is dominated by wood surfaces complemented by leather used e.g. on dining chairs and bar stools Norma from Arper.
How would you characterise the interior?
Are you planning any changes or is there something you wish you would have done differently?
I think it is a modern, airy interior, which serves its purpose.
We do not plan any changes; most changes took place after we moved in in the form of shielding and fitting solutions for the terraces.
Perhaps the only complaint concerns the nutwood flooring which is too susceptible to damage in a household with a dog.
Comments by the architects, Ing. arch. Lenka Langerová and MgA. Kamila Hornychová, who implemented the project
The flat is on the top floor of a new development, which made it possible to come up with a completely new layout and several other modifications.
An important element of the interior was the use of daylighting systems in the ceiling of the hall and the master WC,
to channel natural light to the darker areas of the flat.
Direct access from the master bathroom to the roof terrace and the swimming pool from USSPA is one of the adjustments, which was very beneficial for the functionality of the apartment as a whole.
It also includes a swimming pool and a hot tub.
