Big brother is here in the form of the first spying SIM.
There is no escape.
The new rules should apply to all persons without a Thai passport who decide to purchase a SIM card from one of the local operators.
This does not only include tourists but also individuals with long-term visas who e.g. work in Thailand or who got married there.
According to the Secretary-General of the National Broadcasting and Telecommunications Commission, Takorn Tantasith there will be no exceptions.
The Thai national telecoms regulator presented the plan to sell SIM cards specifically designed for foreigners in early August.
The authorities intend to implement the new measures, which will allow them to track their location within six months.
According to Mr Tantasitha, this is aimed at protecting national security, as it will help authorities to solve crimes perpetrated by foreign nationals.
In addition, these so-called tourist SIM cards should also help to uncover individuals who exceed their length of stay without proper authorisation.
Retailers should start selling the new SIM cards for foreigners along SIMs for locals within six months.
The principal difference between them is in the tracking function which will be permanently enabled on SIM cards sold exclusively to individuals without a Thai passport.
It will not be possible to disable this function.
"We do not need this feature for SIM cards sold to Thais because we can always easily track them," added Tantasith.
It should be noted that in Thailand, prepaid cards are not anonymous as it is the case in the Czech Republic.
The seller requires a proof of identity.
On the other hand, one of the operators used to supply tourists with free starter SIMs at airports.
These were completely anonymous.
Other Asian countries, including Malaysia and Singapore, are also mulling to follow the Thai example and introduce similar measures.
While the SIM registration is compulsory, under current legislation, they are not free to track foreigners.
The planned measures do not mean, however, that foreigners are under any obligation to purchase SIM from a local operator upon arrival to the country.
They are free to use the roaming services offered by their existing SIM cards and escape the watchful eye of the Thai authorities.
This is because the operators in the destination country only know the relevant network information. Once a SIM connects to the network,
they know the telephone number, but not the owner information.
Given that the roaming charges are so much higher than the tariffs of local operators, it is highly likely that most tourists will eventually cave in and buy a local SIM.
The authorities' efforts to track the movements of foreigners, have been the subject of sharp criticism by expat groups living in Thailand.
Tantasith has tried to calm the situation with respect to privacy protection by comparing this with the obligation to provide information about the residential address in immigration documents.
Police will need to get a court order if they wanted to track the movements of a concrete individual.
Any abuse of the system will lead to a yet unspecified punishment.
"It would be a criminal offence for a service provider to track the SIM location without a court order," added Tantasith.
In addition, the system should also maximize the use of prepaid cards.
While at present, telephone numbers are only recycled 90 days after the SIM has last connected to the network, this could be now reduced to fifteen days after departure from Thailand.
