Gold medal No 22
The short individual medley remains Phelps' domain.
"It is great to be able to get back on the podium and to hear the national anthem, it feels amazing," smiled Phelps while his eyes welled up with tears.
His mother together with his fiancée cheered him on, while his son Boomer slept peacefully sporting a pair of ear defenders.
I am experiencing an incredible week at the end of my career.
It is crazy - I started swimming competitively twenty years ago and in a few hours it will be all over, he said emotively.
Silver was won by Janpan's Kosuke Hagino, who won the long individual medley.
China's Wang Shun won the bronze, having won bronze in this event at last year's World Championships.
Following in the footsteps of Alu Oerter (discus throw) and Carl Lewis (long jump), Michael Phelps becomes the third athlete in Olympic history to win four consecutive individual titles in the same event.
Brazil's Thiago Pereira and his compatriot, Ryan Lochte kept pace with Lochte for most of the race,
but neither man could live with him on the freestyle leg of the race as they dropped out of the medals completely.
The American superhero will have at least one more chance to expand his historic medal collection.
Shortly after the medal presentation ceremony for the individual medley he advanced into the 100m butterfly final.
Phelps' historic achievement could not be overshadowed even by his compatriot Ryan Murphy, who won the 100m and 200m backstroke titles in Rio.
In the final, he took gold over Mitch Larkin of Australia, who finished 0.37 seconds behind him and Russia's Evgeny Rylov, who came in third.
While Murphy only finished fifth in 200m backstroke at last year's World Championships, he became the undisputed backstroke king at the Rio Olympics.
He unseated Mitch Larkin from the throne, who won a similar double at last year's World Championship.
This is the first time he won a gold medal at the Olympic games.
American Simone Manuel and Canada's Penny Oleksiak claimed joint gold in the women's 100m freestyle final.
While for the sixteen-year-old Penny Oleksiak, it was the fourth medal at these games, for Simon Manuel, it was the second medal after having earned silver in the relay.
Manuel became the first black female swimmer to win an Olympic gold medal.
I hope I can inspire other people to realise they can do this too.
I dedicate this medal to all those who will follow in my footsteps loving this sport, said the visibly moved Manuel.
Third was Sweden's Sarah Sjöström, who also won gold in 100m butterfly in a world record time and silver in 200m freestyle.
The world record holder, Australia's Cate Cambell only finished sixth.
Japan's Rie Kaneto won the women's 200m breaststroke. It is the first Olympic medal for the twenty seven-year-old.
Her best result so far was a fourth place in this event at the 2013 World Championships.
This was the second silver medal for Russia's Yulia Efimova, who faced hostility from her fellow competitors and the crowd because of her doping past.
I have made one big mistake.
I won my appeal and I do not see why I have to keep answering these questions all the time.
I feel very tired, said the Russian swimmer.
She had to appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) to compete at the Rio games.
They have considered my appeal, and I have won.
If somebody disagrees or has a different opinion, I suggest they contact CAS directly, she added.
