You can collect parcels like Pokémon.
They want to compete with delivery services.
The brains behind the idea to use already scheduled journeys to transport packages are the TV director Matěj Liška and Marek Greger, a manager of a music club in Prague.
They used the idea to create three apps with different geographical reach.
We have launched the domestic delivery services app "Převezu" in May.
At this point, it contains one thousand cities, and we will continue to expand the network.
We want to learn the business in the Czech Republic first before we start focusing more on other countries, said the forty one-year-old manager in an interview with iDNES.cz.
How does the app "Převezu" work and who can benefit from it?
You can download the app for free and register.
Then you can enter your route and information about the size of the package you can transport and the price.
On the same day, someone else may be looking to deliver something.
If both sides agree on the route and the time of delivery, the app matches them together and they both receive a notification,
Next a chat window opens, where the two sides can arrange the handover/pick up.
How many people do you think will have to register to match every package with a courier?
I am not in the position to estimate how many registered users and journeys there have to be to balance supply and demand to ensure optimal coverage.
It is already working well on the main routes but this is much easier than it would be, say, on the road between villages.
The more people, the bigger the potential to offer a fast and accurate delivery,
It takes time for people to trust the system as they realise that nobody will run away with their parcel.
Have you not dealt with such a case yet?
How many users does the service have two months after launch?
We currently have roughly five to six thousand people who deliver parcels.
We consider this to be a success and believe that it will snowball from here.
Is there not a risk that the sender may have to wait too long?
We hope to be competitive with the large conglomerates not least because we are able to deliver the package the same day and for a fraction of the price.
Large companies charge several thousand Czech crowns for delivery within two hours.
With us, you pay one hundred Czech crowns or less because someone is going to your destination anyway.
Should traditional carriers worry about potentially losing customers in the future?
We hope that this will be the case.
The market has a huge potential, there is a range of multinational carriers operating here, making money. When the large retail chains first came here, everybody rushed to shop there only to find out later that the quality does not necessarily reflect the price they are paying for the products.
Nobody likes to find a note in their mailbox advising them to pick up their parcel at the post office branch after 19:00,
when you needed the parcel six hours ago and waited at home because it was important.
We want better, faster and more customer-friendly service that will not annoy people and will send a signal to the competition to try harder.
Marek Greger (41) and Matěj Liška (39).
Neither ever worked in the field of information technology.
Marek Greger works as a music club manager, Matěj Liška is a TV director.
In 2014, they started to prepare the application Shippansee LTD, which uses previously scheduled routes between world capitals, in particular, by air to transport packages.
In 2015, they hired a company to work on the project, which created apps, e.g. for MALL.cz, Jobs.cz or ČSFD.
It took 9 months to develop the app, and they launched to the market in March 2016.
The development of the "Převezu" app started in December last year, and it was released in May this year.
It is a localised version of the Shippansee app adapted to the Czech market.
They have been developing the apps "Mesíkem" and "Mesíkem Profi" since January this year and made them available to users at the end of July 2016.
They intended from the very start to merge all these apps into one.
They want to fine-tune the app in the Czech Republic and then focus on the global market in cooperation with a strong investor.
Sharing economy has become a buzzword lately, with Airbnb and Uber being the leading companies advancing this type of service.
Are you not concerned that the boundary between sharing and grey economy is blurred in this particular field?
It is the same thing, just a different product.
We are aware that if we succeed as a business, and we continue to grow we will be criticised for being part of the grey economy.
While our service will help people to make money on the one hand and save money on the other, it is not our intention to evade the tax authorities or tax inspections.
Any user, who makes money, will be advised about the need to pay taxes on the income generated.
What does make you believe that this service has such a big potential?
The sender will save money and the courier will lower the cost of his journey.
This is the powerful idea that connects the two sides.
In the age of social networks that divide people, we would like to bring people together.
People will be happy that they could help someone, and they will be able to share stories with others.
Maybe someone will bring you your misplaced glasses, keys or medication.
In my view, people miss the personal touch. We say about this app that it is a service by the people for the people.
How can you guarantee that the courier will not take the parcel and run away?
Upon registering, each user will be required to submit a scan of his or her ID card and provide bank, credit or debit card details.
These are channels that lend credibility to the service and its users.
Couriers also collect stars based on the sender reviews.
We will also be offering insurance, the details of which are currently being fine-tuned.
If the consignment is uninsured, the courier is liable for its loss or damage. However, he is not liable for its content under the criminal law, if he was unaware that there was something illegal inside the package.
If the courier is stopped by the police who searches the trunk of his car and finds an AK-47 or ten kilos of hashish in the closed package, the sender will be criminally liable.
Is there not a risk that the sensitive data from the database could be misused?
If necessary, those registered can be traced by the administrative authority, which alone will be able to access it; even we will not have access to the data, which are protected from misuse.
How much can couriers earn after they have successfully delivered the package?
Couriers set their prices, and they receive the full amount they ask for.
The sender will be charged a few percentage points extra for arranging the contact between the two sides.
This represents our profit, but it is only a few percentage points because we want to increase the volume.
It is also not possible to claim that the courier has not delivered a package when this is not the case; the handover and deliver is verified using QR codes.
Are there any restrictions
as regards the size or content of the parcel?
You can transport anything.
We have three sizes - the smallest is about butter size, the medium is like a tray of eggs and the large is the size of a crate of beer.
There are no other restrictions and if someone has sufficient room in their car, they may transport a fridge.
The sender also has the option to take a picture of the parcel through the app, so that the courier can see what the job in hand is.
Senders are not even required to package the item, if they do not wish to hide the package content.
All you have to do is hand the forgotten sweatshirt to the courier.
Whose idea was it and how long did it take to launch the service?
A friend came up with the idea more than two years ago, and I did not pay much attention to it back then.
Then he showed me a demo of the app with multinational scope that was mainly aimed at airline passengers.
I told him that I would not be looking for an investor, because I wanted to invest my own savings into the project.
We spent the next year developing the app, so we decided to establish Shippansee LTD in London to enhance the credibility of the whole product.
Nevertheless, this is not an area you are now focusing on as a matter of priority.
No, we focus our marketing effort on the Czech Republic, where we are trying to fine-tune the app to eliminate any bugs and there are still areas we want to improve.
We want to respond to the feedback from our customers, and we are not that focused on foreign markets at present.
We know we are in this for the long haul, and we are not trying to rush things through as we want to create a really good product for the people.
Shippansee LTD was the first and the most expensive app; the other two were in a way just an upgrade.
"Převezu" was created when we decided that the national segment can potentially be much more interesting and if nothing else we will use our experience in the Czech Republic to learn.
The third app, "Mesíkem" is a local app for cities.
Nevertheless, you can use it to send a parcel to an address on the other side of the world.
It works for the sender the same way as "Převezu", the difference being that as a courier, you see the consignments as dots on the map which are the closest to you thanks to GPS on their mobile phone.
"Mesíkem Profi" is an app for couriers who want to pursue this professionally.
Does this mean that people can literally pick up parcels around the town as their second job?
Absolutely, in Prague, this app could be downloaded by taxi drivers, students, mothers on maternity leave or anyone who wants to make some cash on their way to work.
They could, in essence, collect it like they do collect Pokémons these days.
The courier can see where there are jobs available, he or she can click on it and find out when the package is due for delivery, and then goes ahead and delivers the package.
We designed the service to be much cheaper than the competition.
We are currently working on a web interface, which will be crucial for companies to send packages; they will be able to fill in the information online and create the dots on the map.
We will then be in the position to invoice them, e.g. every month for using the service.
Do you now devote all your time to the project?
It keeps us very busy, and we still have our day jobs to be able to fund and develop the project.
We do not have a multinational investor with deep pockets backing us. We are two regular guys - one who had a great idea and another who jumped on the bandwagon with additional suggestions and ideas.
We are now looking for a dedicated and resourceful investor who would have the courage to develop the product beyond the Czech market and to create a global market leader comparable with AirBnB and Uber.
