The story-scope of Titanfall 2 is expected to deliver nearly forgotten diversity.
According to the information provided, the sequel and the single player campaign are expected to be much more diverse than the Call of Duty.
The length will be around the standard eight hours, and the content is based on the concept of net battles introduced by its predecessor.
Players can enjoy the freedom of movement, which next to running includes the option to use a fighting Titan.
In addition to the action passages, the game contains levels focused on flexibility in movement.
They are reminiscent of platform games and puzzles.
To clear them, it is key to utilise, e.g. double jumps, wall runs and rope sliding.
In addition, players will have to do damage to their enemies.
There will also be maps reminiscent of mazes and levels with special concepts.
In one of them, it will be, for example, possible to move platforms up and down and open massive doors,
and thus change the look of the battlefield.
The pace of the gameplay should, therefore, move between fierce action and quieter moments to explore the unknown planet.
Players will be in control of a foot soldier Jack Cooper, who is dreaming about becoming a professional pilot.
At the start of the campaign, Cooper and captain Lastimosa crash on an alien planet Typhon, which is inhabited by enemy troops.
The local wildlife will also not give them a break.
What is more, Lastimosa is fatally wounded in the crash and Cooper, therefore, has to revive the captain's Titan.
His dream of becoming a pilot comes true earlier than he thought.
The first step will be to steal the battery necessary to repair the robot.
Important will also be the conversations Cooper has with the Titan.
These will serve as a source of information for the players to find out about the soldier's past, while at the same time, the impersonal communication style of the robot will produce some laughs.
For example, when the Titan dryly lists all the injuries that Cooper could suffer as a result of a planned jump.
The Polygon server was first to report on the Titanfall 2 campaign.
We will be able to judge the game for ourselves in two months, and we at Bonusweb will be reporting on our first impressions of the game.
Titanfall 2 will be released on 28 October for PC, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.
