He thought he was going to die.
Ulč resurrected himself and volleyball in Ústí.
"Since March, I was able to train normally," he said at the start of summer training having worked his way to full strength.
What was wrong with you?
I had double pulmonary embolism and related heart problems.
When I competed at the Universiade in Korea, I had no idea that there was something wrong with my blood.
Do you think this was caused by the long-haul flight to Asia?
I had a blood clot in my calf for two years, and I had no idea.
It did hurt but nobody found anything wrong with it.
Then the clot moved upwards.
I have a damaged vein in my calf, which will continue to hurt, especially when it is worked or when the weather changes.
This does not present a limitation for me in any way - it is rather an aesthetic thing.
Were you scared for your life?
I was.
Last year at a summer tournament in Dřevěnice, I could not move at all, and I had no idea that I had a blood clot.
In the evening, I vomited blood.
The doctors were telling me It was something completely different, and I felt K.O. for another five days.
In Dřevěnice, I really thought I was going to die. My girlfriend and my family also thought so.
I already started picturing myself somewhere else.
How did you deal with it?
I guess I had to experience it; it can only go upwards from here.
I know now that I have some problems with my blood, and I will have to watch it when I fly somewhere in the future.
On the other hand, I am not limited in any way.
Just when I was ready to return to preparation in Příbram last year, I started having problems with my heart.
Everything is fine now.
To play again, I have been working on my fitness by my own at home since March.
Fingers crossed, I feel physically in a better shape than I was before.
What do you expect from Ústí?
I am excited - the team looks strong, and I know most of the guys.
I also look forward to meeting the two foreigners who will be joining the team.
I hope we will get on on a personal level, and we can work well together.
Do you think you will be able to provide Ústí with a much needed boost?
It had a reputation of being an underdog, but every season is different.
Two years ago, Brno was eighth, and now it finished second.
Ústí has a completely new team, only a few players remain.
It came in last in the Extraliga, so there is plenty of room for improvement.
What we make of it is up to us.
We will see after the first rounds, who will be the underdog.
Is the manager, Mr Brom a guarantee for success?
He is very experienced and he has seen a lot, and he certainly wants to lift the team from the last place.
However, my arrival had nothing to do with his; I agreed to join earlier.
There were other managers in the running, I am great friends with one of them and there was an agreement that he will join here.
I do not want to mention the name.
In the end, they hired Mr Brom and I am happy about the decision.
He has a great reputation, he manged some very good teams, his experience spans several decades and he was a successful player himself.
He will move us up in the rankings.
Where do you come in?
This team will fight, which is also my forte.
I enjoy fighting, encouraging others to give their best, and I am looking forward to the challenge of playing in a team which does not belong to the very top.
I played for Příbram for two years, but Ústí is a much bigger challenge than to play for the sixth team because here we have to start from the bottom.
You mentioned foreigners, the Australian player Boehm is already training with Ústí.
What does he look like?
As it happens, I know him because we played against each other in the group at the Universiade.
We spoke to each other there a couple of times, and we also hung out together after matches, so we had a chance to get to know each other.
We beat them 3:1, I reminded him right at the beginning of summer preparation in Ústí.
He has a Slovak girlfriend, he is a nice guy.
The American Nadazdin and the Brazilian Ze are also expected to join.
Do you know anything about them?
I wrote to the American, he seems to be a nice guy. I have no idea, whether the Brazilian guy can speak English.
You got in touch with the American?
I thought it was a good idea.
I am a setter, which means my role is to create opportunities, so I should be communicating with everyone.
I did some research on the internet to see what kind of player he is, and I saw some videos.
He seemed pretty good - he is tall and jumps a lot.
We exchanged a couple of messages on Facebook, he is a bit of a comedian, I think he will fit in well with the team.
How are you looking forward to being the number one setter?
I would not have accepted anything else.
After all, I will be twenty-four soon and I don't like being a substitute.
I prefer to be at the centre of things, leading the team rather than let somebody else lead.
I guess I would not want to go on playing full-time if I were to be the second setter. If you cannot give your best, it is not worth much.
How often have you been the first setter?
Six months in Příbram, when Kust, the captain was not in form, got injured, then there were problems with money and he left.
Since then, we climbed up the rankings and I played all the time.
In Brno, where I started, I alternated between first and second setter.
I had a great year at Staré Město, and I could choose from a range of offers and I decided to go for Příbram.
While there, Budějovice has shown interest in me, I decided to stay, but I could not finish the season because of the embolism episode.
This is a new beginning.
