This is disappointing, we could have won.
And a start at midnight?
Something unheard of.
It was a strange day for the Czechs.
They only found out less than an hour before the match who they will be playing against.
They had to master the tactical preparation at a lighting speed.
And then, in an unusual time, the match started on the small court number 1.
After a dismal start to the first set, they closed on their opponents only to fail to bring the set home at 19:19.
In the second, they clearly improved and levelled, but lost the decisive tiebreaker.
The 10:15 defeat was mainly down to a number of poor serves and meant the pair crashed out of the Olympic tournament.
"We could have beaten the Russians," Hermannová said.
What is your view of the match?
I had a slow start, but then we managed to get into the match and play really well.
At the end, my usually reliable return deserted me.
We lost that set, which was crucial.
We started the next set well with a changed defence strategy, we served well and dominated the court.
In the tiebreaker, there were too many poor serves, which tipped the scales to our detriment.
It was disappointing because we could have beaten the Russians.
Shame about the dismal start to the first set.
We were able to close on, but we lost the crucial points.
The second set was great and the third was decided by serves.
We made too many mistakes.
We gifted them five points and these five points would have made the difference. This was crucial.
It is a shame, because the match with the Russians was winnable.
How did you like playing on the small court number 1?
It was reminiscent of playing on side courts in China,
but the setting and atmosphere were different.
It took place at one in the morning in dead silence. There was no music, no nothing.
This was quite a change compared with the centre court.
We would have not chosen this deliberately, but it was not down to us.
How did you prepare for the match, having found out the names of your opponents one hour before the match?
It was strange.
We started to warm up for the match not knowing who we will be playing against. As a result, we could not prepare tactically for the match in contrast to the other teams.
But Simon (their coach Simon Nausch) prepared us tactically for nearly every eventuality.
He had prepared a lot of papers with tactics, so we were pretty well prepared in this respect.
Do you recall ever having to start a match at midnight?
I don't think so.
We played at half past ten, but not at midnight.
Russia's Birlova blocks a ball in the preliminary round play-off at the Olympic Games in Rio.
Beach volleyball players Markéta Sluková a Barbora Hermannová embrace during the preliminary round play-off at the Olympic Games in Rio.
Was it unpleasant?
Given that our last two matches in the group started at ten, we have already adjusted our routine to this later start.
This was still about two hours later.
It is strange, but I cannot think of any other sport where athletes are required to give their best at midnight.
On the other hand, I think we prepared as well as we could.
We knew about it, but it is not common and probably and it will hardly become my favourite time to play.
How do you rate your Olympic experience?
As our goal was to advance from the group, we can say
that we have achieved that,
but now, after the match I am sad.
I'll sleep on it and from tomorrow, I will only remember the positive aspects of the Olympic tournament.
