Although not yet confirmed, it is said by many sources that Apple's 2016 autumn conference will be held in September, and iPhone7 would really be launched into the market.
Although Apple did not respond, there are news release about the function and configuration of the new iPhone. There are even the images of iPhone7 "real machine model" on the internet.
The new generation of iPhone is really "eye-catching", hot and hard-to-get. If you want to buy the genuine product at the first time, you must choose a good channel, for example, Suning.
This has exacerbated people's disappointment of the new iPhone, "It is lengthened, but cannot be used to cast holographic images! This generation of iPhone is so terrible."
iPhone7, just like other iPhones, brings countless secret before birth.
In addition, there are a number of sources claiming that the new generation of iPhone will have the 3.5mm headphone jack cancelled, and adopt Bluetooth connection and charging interface instead, which will provide space for Apple to add a second speaker.
Another evidence to support this news is that as early as 2014, Apple will allow headset manufacturers to produce headset products via producing charging interface.
Another evidence to confirm this message is that Apple allows the headphone manufacturer to produce headphone via the connection of charge interface.
Whether these news are true or false will not be unveiled until the 2016 Apple autumn conference.
But this does not prevent the industry insiders to be optimistic about the prospects of iPhone7 - many people think that iPhone7 will be likely to become the last major upgrade of Apple's iPhone series, although it can be seen from the data released by the market research institution IDC that the market share of iPhone will decline to some degree.
Among them, Goldman Sachs ranked Apple's stock to be the rating of "buying" while BMO analyst thought that iPhone7 will obtain a historical high sales achievement.
Meanwhile, Broadcom CEO Hock Tan also said that Apple's future revenue growth will likely be more than 20%, which is entirely due to the introduction of iPhone7.
7% of respondents said they have the plan to buy iPhone7, while only 4% people had the plan to buy iPhone6.
It is understood that currently 20% of user groups of iPhone6 or 6Plus have such a plan to purchase iPhone7. This is a quite high proportion.
Secondly, according to expert analysis, most of the iPhone fans like to replace their own iPhone mobile phone.
According to statistics, among all iPhone users, about 26% of users have not changed their phones for 2 years. That is, almost 120 million users of iPhones have been using the same iPhone for 2 years.
According to media, Taiwan witnessed several earthquakes during the production period of iPhone7. "The destruction of TSMC production facilities is beyond imagination and may impact the initial supply of iPhone7."
Supply and demand contradiction will affect the average user, so it is time to choose a good channel and purchase the genuine iPhone7 for the first time.
According to informed sources, recently, Suning executives and Apple frequently meet, with the purpose to prepare adequate supply.
Operators have negotiated with Suning. So it is foreseeable that, with the depth of cooperation between the two sides, lower prices and more intimate services will inevitably bring to users.
"With the lowest price, the consumer may "buy iPhone7 with just 7 yuan per day".
Adequate supply and a variety of concessions will alleviate the pressure of iPhone7 buying. Suning's logistics will change such good feeling into more intuitive sense of experience.
Maybe you'll get a call at midnight. "Hello, Suning Tesco, your iPhone7 is here."
