Xiamen girl Zhang Binbin: "handsome hands" encourage her to start shooting career, which saw several "reverse"
Zhang Donghong, a villager of the East Park Village, Xiamen Xiang'an District, changed his 29-inch old TV into a 65-inch TV just a few days before.
The ordinary farmer has a daughter, named Zhang Binbin. She is the one to win sanzi final silver medal of Olympic Games Women's 50-meters rifle games for China in the evening of the eleventh.
In the evening of the 11th day of the month, just in front of this new TV set, the Zhang Donghong couple and their dozens of relatives and friends have witnessed the magic process for the couple's daughter to catch up and reverse from almost being eliminated in the preliminaries to almost winning.
At the game, Zhang Binbin was ranked in the middle and lower reaches and it seemed she was still quite far away from the final.
But her parents and friends did not give up, kept watching the live and saw other players finish the game. Zhang Binbin raised her ranks all the way and finally came to the final. At this time, a burst of cheers broke out in her home.
In the final, Zhang Binbin also started from lagging behind and shot more stably and won the silver medal with just 0.2 rings behind the champion.
This year, the 27-year-old Zhang Binbin, in the 16-year shooting career, has actually missed the silver medal for several times.
According to her mother Zhang Xiaolong, her daughter sent a few "little persuaders" from her village at their hesitation.
These little persuaders are girls and boys of her village who were recommended to attend the training at the same time, including Zhang Binbin's cousin.
Just after coming to Xiamen team, Zhang Binbin once again took the initiative to return to Xiang'an school because of her family difficulties.
But after the repeated efforts of her enlightening teacher, Zhang Binbin returned to Xiamen team.
And after she came into the provincial team, Zhang Binbin returned home because she found it almost hopeless to enter the national team after a long time.
This time, not only the coach Zhang Yajie, but also the leaders and coach of Xiamen shooting archery sports center and Fujian provincial team came to her home. With their efforts, Zhang Binbin was finally persuaded to return to the provincial team.
Just at yesterday's game, the Xiamen girl achieved several reversals of the shooting with her insistence.
"Each coach has his own method to choose the potential player. I decided to take her once I saw her beautiful hands."
Zhang Donghong also recalled, in the training test, although the results of her daughter were not the best, her rings were very stable, which is also an important reason for Zhang Binbin to attract coaches.
During the training process of Zhang Binbin, it was the input of this farmer girl that impressed Zhang Yajie most.
He recalled that after Zhang Binbin came into the Xiamen shooting team more than a year later, the team carried out a long shot of gun training, requiring players not to move for half an hour.
Zhang Xiaolong told reporters that her daughter has always been a quiet and well-behaved child, with the hobby of painting and producing toys.
"I used to make clothes and do some sowing jobs. Binbin picked up some scraps to make her own dolls."
She said, her daughter often sewed hand toys. Plus, she is good at painting and could make animated toys from the doll's facial features to clothing.
As an athlete, Zhang Binbin and her family are separate more than being together. As she can only return home during festivities, she mainly contacts family members by phone in other time.
According to her parents, no matter meeting in person or talking by phone, Zhang Binbin seldom talked about her hard work but more about some happy things.
Because they cannot often see their daughter, they put away the paintings of her childhood and honors of consecutive years.
Zhang Xiaolong showed the animation show of her daughter to the reporter, "She should keep drawing instead if she did not become shooter."
In the living room on the second floor of Zhang Binbin, there was a cupboard filled with medals and certificates.
Zhang Donghong put away the medals neatly and placed all certificates into files for storage. "This is honor made by Binbin after a dozen of years' efforts. We feel quite cherished."
