On the morning of August 12, the State Council Information Office held a press conference on the operation of the national economy in July 2016.
Sheng Yunyun, spokesman of National Bureau of Statistics and head of National Economic Statistics Division said that, in July, the part index number of national economy slowed relatively but still operated in the reasonable range.
According to the data of National Bureau of Statistics, the fixed asset investment growth, total imports and other data in July have come down.
Sheng Laiyun said, as for the national economy in July, I would like to use the words of Premier, "the shape is volatile and the potential is still good". This is a better way to summarize the characteristics of the economic operation in July.
He explained that "the shape of the fluctuations" refers to the fall after rise of some economic indicators growth rate in July.
In July, the domestic and international economy is still in the deep adjustment, the international situation is complex and volatile and the world economic recovery is less than expected, so the export pressure is still relatively heavy.
As for the domestic situation, the whole economy is still in the critical stage of adjustment, adjustment labor pains are releasing and the economy is under great pressure, so some indicators are still fluctuating.
Sheng Laiyun pointed out that there was a special case in July, with serious floods, high temperature and hot weather which have brought some impact on production and operation of some areas.
According to the recent report of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, more than 60 million people were affected, with direct economic losses of more than 200 billion yuan.
From the view of industrial, investment and transport-related indicators, these areas are affected to varying degrees.
The cargo turnover growth rate in July fell back 3.6 percentage and floods on these areas have a certain impact on traffic.
From these factors, it is quite normal to have some fluctuations in some indicators. And such thing is expected.
He said, "The potential is still good" means that despite the fallback of economic growth, the overall economic performance is stable and steady. And the good momentum has not changed.
In July, CPI rose by 1.8%, with a month-on-month rise of 0.2%. From January to July, CPI rose by 2.1%, so the overall price situation is stable.
