On the surface, the online social platform expands our social circle and reduces people's loneliness.
The sphere of influence of social networking not only replaces the traditional telephone contact, but also gets down to the offline living circle, quietly changing the current social life of the people.
The benefits of online social network are obvious, convenient and quick, so it is particularly vulnerable to the favor of young people.
A survey of college students' social habits shows that 57% of college students spend more than 5 hours on mobile phone and is almost inseparable to his mobile phone during their daily lives.
"Social network features low cost, fast transmission speed and simultaneous communication among several people. This meets the requirement of modern college students."
Expanding the interpersonal relationship circle, more equal dialogue, avoiding social concerns are major reasons for us to be fascinated with online chat.
New comers in the company love online exchange with colleagues. "We are not familiar with each other when we just come to the company. The likes and comments on social platform makes people much closer to one another. "
People who love to make friends also love online communication. "I lost contact with my friends due to some misunderstandings. We became familiar again after a few dialogues on the group chatting."
IT engineer Wu Yan is a profound social networking lovers. His majority social life occurred online and his online contact is several times than that of offline friends.
Wu Yan himself admitted that the network is more "in his element".
"You can respond to your friends when you are willing, because there is a lot of time to think over the words and you can express it more clearly.
"The communication hidden below one's ID can avoid interpersonal clash. This not only has room for maneuver, and even gives each other more time and space to thought and deeds."
"People of different identities have the same rights and efficiency to speech. Various social concerns during real life may be eliminated immediately on internet."
However, Xiaopeng, a friend of Wu Yan, thought that Wu Yan is a "very boring otaku."
Xiaopeng and Wuyan meet each other in the group chatting. They two get familiar with each other because they are active speakers.
Xiaopeng thought that Wuyan is quite different from the one on internet. He is quite bored and does not take the initiative to express his views. His words are repeated like this, "Oh, yes, right", or "I will check it online".
