Industry data showed that the total size of coal production in 2015 was close to 6 billion tons and the national coal production overcapacity reached 1.8 billion tons.
Over the past decade, the State Council has issued a total of five notices for the elimination of excessive and backward production capacity.
Although the first four notices are not directly involved with coal industry, the target industry is directly related with coal industry.
From last November to this January, the price of Qinhuangdao 5500 kcal steam coal lingers at 370 yuan/ton and 90% of the coal enterprises fell into a loss.
And since February, coal prices gradually picked up, Qinhuangdao steam coal prices rose continuously for four weeks, rose to 16 months high, once climbed to 436 yuan per ton, up nearly 70 yuan per ton over the beginning.
With the price rising, come along the concerns of various industries: will a number of small coal mines resume production?
In this regard, Kuang Xianming, head of the Economic Research Institute of the China (Hainan) Reform and Development Institute, conducted an analysis and interpretation.
Kuang Xianming: overcapacity cut roused the high concerns to various industries. The report card of the overcapacity cut of the coal industry announced today make everyone feel worried indeed.
These three superficial factors reflect the reason behind the relative lagging behind of our growth pattern change. That is, the government-led growth has not yet been fundamentally changed.
Second, it is also directly related with the force of local government. During the overcapacity cut process, the funds and the corresponding supporting measures should be in place. From this point of view, the differences are indeed relatively large among different regions.
Thirdly, some of the provinces that are relatively slow in progress may face greater risks if they seek acceleration in progress in the second half of the year.
In this case, relying on the central allowance to raise funds to promote the process of production capacity may have a negative impact.
First, the overcapacity cut is not a simple cap control.
Our goal is to eliminate the backward production capacity, promote the optimization of the structure and restructure the new format of the entire coal industry.
During the process of overcapacity cut deploying, the local government must combine the production capacity and the transformation and upgrading of the coal industry to develop the relevant service industry.
Second, in order to complete this year's overcapacity cut task within this year, we must give full play to the power of administrative supervision.
Finally, we should strengthen the role of social security.
Because the market is directly related to the employment problem, we have to strengthen the employment skills training of employees.
