Qingdao is China's 12th and also Shandong's first trial city to use and trade emissions.
On the 11th day of the month, many companies came to the Qingdao Municipal Emissions Trading Center to submit emissions subscription. After acceptance, they shall pay fees.
The upcoming first single transaction also indicates that Qingdao emissions trading pilot officially kicked off. It will also be the first emissions trading in Shandong and the first city-level emissions trading in China.
In the morning of 11th day of the month, Zhao Xiuping, the General Manager of Qingdao Shuangtao Fine Chemical (Group) Co., Ltd. came to the trading center to submit emissions subscription.
Its plant in the old urban area of Qingdao came to a full halt and was moved to the new plant in Pingdu due to environmental reason.
After Zhao Xiuping submitted the application form and the construction project environmental impact report, etc., Qingdao Municipal Emissions Reserve and Trading Service Center began to review the application materials.
According to the collection standard determined by Qingdao price bureau and financial sector, the estimated initial emission fee is about 641,200 yuan. The working staff will finish review within 7 working days.
The upcoming first single transaction also indicates that Qingdao emissions trading pilot will officially kick off. It will also be the first emissions trading in Shandong and the first city-level emissions trading in China.
According to Zhao Xiuping, up to RMB 400 million has been invested in the current environmental protection. Such investment has a great impact on the enterprise management philosophy and social benefits and also opened up a space for the enterprise innovation management.
On the same day, Qingdao SF-XC-ZZ Coach Component Co., Ltd. also came to purchase emission rights for its project with an annual output of 4,200 interior accessories of high-speed rail and CRH.
The project is a mechanical processing enterprise. Its initial emission rate for the chemical oxygen demand (COD) and ammonia (NOX) are 0.514 tons/year and 0.052 tons/year, respectively.
The paid use and trading of Air Pollutant Emission Permits cover the city's key industrial enterprises for the production and supply of electricity and heat.
On January 1, 2016, the current pollutant discharging unit which obtained environmental impact assessment shall be exempt from expenditure of compensated use.
The obtaining of compensated emission right is not equal to the obtaining of illegal discharge, so companies cannot discharge pollutants at will.
Han Hongyan, deputy director of Qingdao Environmental Protection Bureau, introduces that companies of illegal and excessive sewage must be punished in accordance with the relevant laws and regulations. Illegal enterprises cannot be allowed to circumvent punishment via purchasing emission rights.
In other words, we need to crack down on environmental violations through legal means and severely punish the enterprises' over standard discharge behaviors, so as to protect the environment and public health.
Now for their own interests, enterprises have raised their enthusiasm of pollution control, cherished limited emissions and reduced emissions of pollutants.
With the economic interests drive, to reduce pollutants' discharge has shifted from the government's mandatory behavior into a conscious market behavior, so as to truly protect the environment, nature and public health.
Emission right, also known as "dumping right", means the right to discharge pollutants. It refers to the right for emitters to discharge pollutants to the environment in line with the law within the quota assigned by the government.
This right is essentially the right of the emitters to occupy, use and benefit from environmental capacity resources.
Next, under the premise that the total discharge of pollutants does not exceed the total allowable emission volume, the internal resources of pollution began to swap discharge capacities via currency exchange.
Since the proposition of emissions trading by American economist Dyers in 1968, it has been applied by the United States of America to the management of atmospheric and river pollution sources since the 1970s.
Since its pilot in China in 2007, it has been applied to 14 provinces (autonomous regions and municipalities) including Zhejiang and Jiangsu.
