Many NBA players have proved their strength. But whenever there is progress, there is decline.
Whether it is because of the increase in age or limited playing time, some players will have regressive performance each season.
Of course, some "retreat" may only be data shrink, but the strength of these players may not have been reduced.
Even if Wade is still one of the league's best linebacker, his performance in the Bulls is not so good as that of the Heat.
The backcourt range of he and Londo is limited. The three-point hit rate of headed star Butler is just 32.8%, making their next-season offence quite challenging.
After coming to Feng Cheng, the Red Star will definitely give the ball right to Butler and Rondo and he himself choose to play healthy in the regular season.
Okafor's situation is more embarrassing. As the first choice of 76 people last season, he had to compete for playing time and ball right with Simmons and Enby in the new season.
This competition may not come soon. Simmons also need to adapt to the NBA stadium, and Enbi must also be fully recovered from the injury as soon as possible, but whether Okafor can have a position in the long array of 76 people.
Last season, 32% of the score of Okafor comes from the low attack. Such rate is higher than Cousins, Wuchevich and Brook Lopez, while his use rate is also the top 40 in the league.
With Simmons already showing a good point-forward potention, Enbi also has a better stature more suitable for NBA games and Okafor's position is hard to be so solid.
Over the past two seasons, Thompson's use rate has stabilized in the top 20 of the league and this is the best two seasons for his career.
But the problem is, with the arrival of Durant, Thompson's appearance ratio will surely decline, which is bound to affect his play.
This effect will not only be the impact of the number of shots, Thompson's holding attack in the next season will certainly be greatly reduced, which in some ways will reduce the opponent's defense difficulty.
Durant's arrival will certainly negatively affect the score of Warriors players, but the one with the most negative effect is probably that of Thompson.
But this does not mean that the level of Thompson steps backward. This is more likely that he made sacrifice for the team as a whole.
Parker had a better performance than last season. This is not only because his basket efficiency came to the highest level, his chemical reaction with Aldrich also benefits the Spurs.
Duncan retired, Ginobili announced a second battles for a year and the combination of GDP eventually came to an end. As one of the youngest among three people, the oil tank of French sports car is not much left.
After getting the third championship ring, only Jabbar, Jordan and Russell won more regular MVP than that of James, while Jordan was the only one who had more FMVP than that of James.
Oh, yes, James has just brought the first professional sports championship trophy in Cleveland in the past 52 years.
Coming to the 14th season of his career, James needs to better conserve his strength and get ready for the playoffs.
Therefore, in the regular season, James's capability is likely to further decline, he will give more weight to Owen to bear, but he will still easily become the league's top three players.
