On August 11, when the reporter called Huang Yilin, who was in his Mianyang home, she said, "At that time, it was too urgent. And there was just one idea, which is to rescue people!"
Huang Yilin was a student of grade 2015 in the Landscape Architecture College of Central South University of Forestry and Technology.
Majored in urban and rural planning, Huang Yilin wanted to visit Sichuan Langzhong and learn the local architectural design, so the family were bound for there.
At around 10 a.m. on August 8th, Huang Yilin's father was having a rest in the hotel, while Huang Yilin and his mother went to stroll the Langzhong ancient city.
Not walking too far, they saw a group of people shouting, so they approached for curiosity.
Seeing the "little boy has just disappeared and the little girl desperately fluttered in the water, just with her little brain left above the water and keeping sinking", Huang Yilin, who learned how to swim hurriedly jumped to rescue people.
After jumping into the water, the 165cm-tall Huang Yilin found that she cannot touch the bottom!
The calm-looking river had rapids in the bottom.
But she still desperately swam to the little girl.
Huang Yilin said the river was muddy and run fast. The only 5-meter distance almost wore her out.
She tried her best to push the little girl to the embankment. "The slope is particularly slippery, and I am afraid that I have no strength but to sink."
So Huang Yilin called to her mother for help. Hearing her daughter's call, Ms.Yin tried to rescue and was held up by other people.
On August 10, after the spread of the event of Huang Yilin's jumping into the river for rescue. Ms. Yin received the condolences and compliments of a lot of friends and relatives as well as the "concerns" of many relatives and friends.
"Now, in retrospect, it's really scared! To be honest, when my child does not hold on to the riverbank, my heart is broken soon."
Ms. Yin said with a lingering fear that, despite the danger, she will still support her daughter's choice and she is proud of her daughter even if she was placed in that scene again!
Because she was forced to learn swimming, she seldom went to swim after mastering the skill. "I did not expect this skill really to come in handy."
According to Chen Yiyang, her supervisor, Huang Yilin is the "The Straight A Student" well-known in her class and ready to help.
