China's Mars program is coming
China Mars exploration mission aims to achieve surrounding, landing and patrolling at one time, which has never occurred in foreign countries.
China's Mars exploration launch target is to step around, land and patrol at one time. Such task has considerable difficulty.
Because the Mars probe can encounter a time window in 26 months, experts are closely working on the project plan and try to launch the first Mars probe in 2020.
According to Xu Dazhe, although China's aircraft has entered a deep space, it is still essential to finish the task of Mars exploration. The detection of Mars means that China has stepped into the deep space exploration era in a true sense.
"Every two or three years, there is a chance that Mars is closest to Earth. And at this point, it is most energy efficient to launch the vehicle."
"Taking into account the mass of Mars detectors, it will be the job of China's Long March 5 carrier rocket to complete the launch mission."
China's Mars exploration mission aims to achieve surrounding, landing and patrolling at one time, which has never occurred in foreign countries. There was one time of surrounding and landing before in foreign countries, but the landing failed.
Mars exploration involves a lot of technical areas. In particular, although the rover is a space detector, it has a distinctive feature compared with the general space detector.
In other words, the Mars probe should be capable of determining the driving route and equipped with the ability to find obstacles.
According to Pang Zhihao, a researcher of the fifth institute of China's Aerospace Science and Technology Group, the reason for human being to favor Mars exploration is because Mars detection has significant scientific and technical meanings and it even matters to the future of human beings.
Currently, the Mars has become the planet with the highest degree of human research. The history of human beings to use space detectors for Mars exploration almost goes across the entire history of human space exploration.
Therefore, the human beings hope that one day on the Mars to establish a base of residence, and ultimately to Mars immigration, it turned into a second home of mankind.
A large number of signs also show that the Mars is likely to be the same as the current Earth, only after billions of years of evolution into the atmosphere thin, low temperature, water depletion and so on.
Therefore, the detection or manned landing on the Mars for research can help propose a pre-arranged planning to prevent the earth from becoming the second Mars which is difficult for human beings to inhabit.
As of June 2016, the world conducted a total of 114 lunar explorations, including 43 Mars detection missions.
However, ever since the 1990s, a total of 18 human explorations have been carried out and only 14 lunar detections have been conducted.
There are currently five Mars orbiters and two Mars rovers at work, but only one lunar orbiter and one lunar lander are at work.
World space powers have developed a detection plan with the Mars system as target. So we can see the current Mars detection is hotter than that of moon detection.
On Nov. 5, 2013, India launched the first Mars probe "Mangalian", and has become Asia's first country for successful detection of the Mars.
"Mangalian" is used to study the surface, the atmosphere and mineral characteristics of the Mars and explore whether there are signs of methane and life on the Mars.
The hardest part of the mission is that the probe just has one chance before entering the Martian atmosphere for aerodynamic shape and parachute deceleration.
According to Sun Zezhou, the chief designer of a Mars detector of the China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation, the Mars exploration task is confronted with many technical challenges.
The atmospheric pressure of the Mars is very low, only 1% of the Earth's surface atmospheric pressure, with high uncertainty.
Scientists have not had a thorough understanding of Mars factors such as its changes and storm characteristics.
A dust storm similar to the Earth's dust is often formed in the Mars in the summer, which will lead to a sharp decline in solar energy. So a "sleep" mode must be designed for the Mars rover and let it wait patiently until the disappearance of dust storms.
At the same time, the Martian atmosphere has a reducing effect on sunlight, which poses a problem for the energy supply for Mars detection.
This requires that the detector's sun wing area to be larger, and need to constantly adjust, and strive to align with the sun direction.
In addition, since the gravity of the Mars is only 38% of that of the earth and much higher than that of the Moon surface, so the probe requires higher power.
"The core and the most difficult part of the Mars exploration mission are the aerodynamic shape and parachute deceleration process after the probe enters Martian atmosphere. There is just one chance to ensure success."
According to Sun Ze, it must rely on the detector to complete the entire process because the distance between the Earth and the Mars is quite large.
Because there is not so much propellant to offset the high speed, the slowdown should rely on the atmosphere of the Mars while landing the Mars. However, it is quite difficult to simulate the atmosphere of the Mars on earth.
Pang Zhihao said, in general, the way to detect the Mars is similar to the way to detect the moon. The entire process is also "surrounding, landing, patrolling and returning" to achieve the goal of manned landing on the Mars.
Because the distance between the Mars and the earth is larger than that between the Moon and Earth, it needs to overcome a series of more complex technical difficulties before the Mars detection.
