Gracia is a cute female toucan, exuding the breath of tropical rain forest.
In Costa Rica, one of the Central American countries, Toucan Gracia and its story have long been known.
At the press conference on August 10, after postoperative rehabilitation, Gresham finally appeared and showed people its brand new 3D printing plastic beak.
This toucan, which had its beak broken and was dying just one year and a half ago, finally regained its new life.
This day not only announced that it has restored health by 100%, but also signaled its moving into the luxury aviary to meet its human friends.
The newcomer Grecia was slightly shy initially, but soon became lively, rolling in the basin frolic and eating grapes with a new beak.
In order to remind people that it has suffered damage, the technical staff did not give it a new beak color, but to retain the original white color of the 3D print material.
The beak is a thin layer of horny sheath, which is hollow inside and only has some of the thin bone to support.
Despite this internal reinforcement, the toucan's beak is fragile and may be broken when it is hurt.
Animal rescue center, ornithologist and a US 3D printing company worked together to prepare several "test beak" for Gracia and finally built a "perfect beak" for it.
Now Gracia has been able to use the new beak to drink water, eat, and even peck fine grains.
"The design of the finished product costs about two months and it just takes 4-5 hours to print it."
"3D printing is not the future technology but really enters into your life." Thomas Lange, the chairman of US SG3D printing company said in an interview with Xinhua International.
In January 2015, Gracia, lying on a farm in the town of Alajuela in the middle of Costa Rica, was found with blood covering on its body.
At that time, its beak was cruelly broken by a group of young people. It was completely unable to eat and dying.
After the tragedy of the Gracia was reported by the media, there are a tide of animal anti-abuse call occurring inside and outside Costa Rica.
People demand to establish more rigorous animal protection law to enhance the punishment against abusers.
People came spontaneously to try their utmost to help Gracia restore its life before hurting.
Even the inventor of the 3D printing technology, Chuck Hull, is also involved in the design of the Gracia beak.
"The situation of Gracia is very special, and its remaining part of the beak is less than 1 centimeter, so there are many difficulties in installing the new beak."
"We first scanned Gracia and then designed and produced an extended prosthesis slightly longer than the rest of its beak and fixed on its beak with glue."
"This can reduce the risk of further intrusive damage to Gracia," Lange told Xinhua International.
Before installing the prosthesis, the staff cleared the broken beak of Gracia every day to prevent infection.
Thousands of miles away, the story of the Toucan Gracia touched the famous documentary director Paula El Reidia and the news channel producer John Hoffman.
They recorded a little bit of the process of installing a new beak, and recorded a documentary "The Country of Toucan", which was played this month on the Animal Planet Channel.
The documentary "The State of the Toucan" shows people how a small Toucan has changed a country and how people get involved in the fight against torture of animals.
