The opening ceremony of the first Youth Games of Yunnan Province on the 13th day of the month showed youth vitality
The first Youth Games in Yunnan Province will be held from August 13 to August 22 in De Hong Zhou Mang City.
On August 12, in De Hong Zhou Mang City, the organizing committee held a press conference to introduce the organization and the opening ceremony.
The First Youth Games of Yunnan Province will be hosted by the Yunnan Provincial Sports Bureau and undertaken by Mang City People's Government. The opening ceremony will be held in the morning of the 13th day of the month.
There are 11 items in the games, including track and field, soccer, basketball, tennis, volleyball, weightlifting, cycling, wrestling, gymnastics, martial arts and so on, involving 180 small items.
According to Chang Yin, the deputy director of the First Youth Games Organizing Committee and the deputy director of the Provincial Sports Bureau, by following the principle of "government-led, market operation, frugal race", all preparation work has been in place.
The renovation work of Dehong old weightlifting hall and martial arts museum, Mang City Yixiao Wrestling arena, Silver Tower Scenic Area mountain bike track has been completed.
In terms of event security, the current conference recruited 580 volunteers, during which the volunteers will provide services in the various venues for athletes and visitors.
At the same time, 70 medical staff and 11 ambulances were deployed from various Dehong hospitals to produce 11 medical teams, which will be responsible for the medical security work of competition site and the accommodation of athletes.
As for the issues related with the opening and closing ceremonies, the lighting ceremony of the current Youth Games is combined the traditional sports characteristics of Yunnan ethnic minorities. In this way, the cultural connotation of Yunnan will be enriched.
At present, in preparation for the opening ceremony, a total of 1,500 student actors from Dehong Vocational College and other 500 professional actors are deployed.
Yunnan element will be fully integrated into the opening and closing ceremonies. Dehong characteristics will show the regional culture and folk customs features of De Hong Zhou Mang City.
At present, the rehearsal work of the opening ceremony was terminated and the official performance will be held tomorrow morning.
The artistic performance of the opening ceremony of the Games will be relatively large in size.
