According to the statistics of hot weather in the districts and counties by the portal of the Chongqing Municipal Bureau of Meteorology, in addition to Youyang, the rest of the city can receive different degrees of high temperature allowance.
At present, at least 28 provinces in the country have clearly defined the standard of the allowance, but the standards issued by provinces and municipalities are not the same, and people in Chongqing receive the allowance based on the count of high-temperature working days.
In case of temperature between 35 and 37 ℃, people can receive allowance of no less than 10 yuan per day. In case of temperature above 37℃, people are released with the allowance of not less than 15 yuan.
In case of temperature above 40℃, staff working in high temperature can receive up to 20 yuan per day of allowance (but for laborers who enjoy the high temperature job allowance).
In accordance with this standard, people in Kaizhou which has the highest number of high temperature can receive 330 yuan. And people in Chengkou with the least days of high temperature can receive 80 yuan. And the maximum temperature of Youyang did not meet the high temperature standards, so there is no high temperature allowance.
In the past, many companies adopt cool drinks as high temperature allowance. The city safety supervision bureau deemed that this behavior does not meet the current regulation.
Employer shall not deduct or reduce the wages of workers in case of terminating work and reducing working hours in high temperature weather.
The city's Human Resources and Social Security Bureau said that if employees did not receive high temperature allowance while working under high temperature, they may fight for the legitimate rights and interests via the labor dispute mediation organization or dial 12333 for complaint.
If the employing unit refuses to pay the high temperature allowance, the laborer may lodge a complaint with the competent department of human resources social security at the county level or above.
At the same time, because the high temperature allowance is part of the wage and not welfare, such allowance shall be included in the total wages, with tax deducted.
So the high temperature allowance is not within the minimum wage, it must be issued in cash and not substituted by physical objects such as drinks.
