According to foreign media reports, Zhang Huizhen, the 27-year-old Korean archery female player won the gold medal in the women's archery individual tournament. This is the second scoring of Olympic gold medal following the team competition. This made she become a double winner.
Zhang Huizhen is considered as a late bloomer. She regrets about not winning the last session of the London Olympic Games tickets before, but now she proudly stands on the top of the Rio Olympic podium.
Zhang Huizhen won the gold medal in Lisa Wenglu, a total score of 6-2 in the women's archery finals at the Samba Boulevard in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
She did archery for the first time in the fourth grade of primary school. She won the first individual tournament gold medal when she was 27 in 2014. So she is a late bloomer.
Zhang Huizhen recalled, "My performance before high school was too bad to enable me to participate in the national competition.
Zhang Huizhen was ranked the fourth at the London Olympic Games qualification trials. Unfortunately, she lost the Olympic admission and can just watch her colleague and good friend Qi Pubei score two gold medals.
Zhang Huizhen talked about his gold winning after the women's individual awards ceremony of archery. "I tried to shoot one by one until the last. Maybe it is because this brings me good results and makes me contented."
The 28-year-old Korean archery "No.1", and the London Olympic Games archery individual tournament winner Qi Fubei won the bronze medal.
Qi Fubei was defeated by Zhang Huizhen in the semifinals and competed for the bronze medal with the Mexican player Alexandra Valencia.
Qi Fubei shed tears after she knew she won the blonde medal. At this time, we can know her pressure.
Firstly, the coaching staff accumulated rich experience in his gradual study. Secondly, it needs scientific training, which should be accumulated over time.
The Archery team helped the team players focus and remain unbiased via military training and going through the cemetery during night.
