Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal branch channels Old Wanfu River and Beidaliu will charge tolls since September 1.
The two tributaries will conduct construction via social financing. The charges have been approved by the relevant provincial government departments.
The old Wanfu River channel flows through Jinxiang, Yu Tai and then through the Nanyang Lake into the Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal main channel, with a total length of 32.5 km.
According to the navigation needs, the old Wanfu River channel takes the mode of conservation and transformation. Dredging was conducted on the local depth and curve cut-off on the local sharp bend. Then the navigation conditions can be improved.
The channel flows through Jinxiang County, Rencheng area and then through the Nanyang Lake into the Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal main channel, with a total length of 19 km.
The renovation project of the two waterway started construction in February 2011. The delivery inspection was conducted in January 2015. The investment construction and operation main body is Jining City Anping Canal Logistics Service Center.
In accordance with the "loan construction and charging for repaying loan" principle, Jining City Anping Canal Logistics Service Center will collect channel tolls according to the charge standard approved by Shandong Provincial Price Bureau.
Among them, the basic toll is 1.75 yuan/dwt and mileage toll is 0.05 yuan/km dwt.
The toll collection date is from June 15, 2016 to June 14, 2019.
Reporters learned from Jining Port and Waterway Bureau that there are a total of 4 toll channels within Jining territory, including Zhushuihe Channel, Baima River Channel, Beidahang Channel and Laowanfu Channel.
These four channels are Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal tributary channels, which are upgraded and renovated in the way of social financing.
Zhushuihe Channel Upgrade Renovation Project is the first project adopting the mode of "government + market" for the infrastructure construction of river and ports within Shandong province. The government accounts for the major part of investment while social fund supplements the funding gap.
Baima River, the laowanfu River and Beidaliu River and other feeder routes adopt pure market operation.
The funds allocated by the state finance cannot meet the needs of the project construction and restrict the progress of the channel upgrade.
Social funds for the construction of public infrastructure are in line with national policy requirements and have become a way to break the bottleneck of funding.
