Ning Zetao's performance in the 100 meters freestyle semi-final has made a lot of Chinese audience speechless.
Actually, this 50-meter freestyle is not the subject of Ning Zetao. His performance and best achievement in Kazan World Championships also indicate it is not possible for him to make breakthrough in this project.
Sure enough, Ta Kung Pao, an authoritative media in Hong Kong, revealed that the biggest reason for Ning Zetao to lose is that he has lost interest in swimming.
Many factors may have a great impact on his future ideas. He is now more interested in entering the entertainment circle.
After Kazan World Championships, Ning Zetao instantly become celebrity with his good look and excellent performance.
As a result, "national husband (a good match)", "fresh little meat", "gorgeous", etc. have become his label.
A variety of business activities came to him. He really have a golden flashing prospect.
In this case, that Ning Zetao chooses to withdraw and joins the entertainment circle, is not only his freedom, but also a seemingly viable way.
After all, he is only 23 years old. After a certain degree of study, he can perform some TV series with his popularity.
But Ning Zetao needs to see whether he is qualified enough compared with his predecessors.
At the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games, the already 21-year-old Liu Xuan came to the end of athlete career.
The beautiful appearance of Liu Xuan makes her quickly remembered and also lays a foundation for her to join the entertainment circle.
After retirement, Liu Xuan starred in a number of TV series, and in 2013 she set up her own studio.
Tian Liang participated in the single and double ten-meter match of two Olympic Games, and won 2 gold and 2 silver.
But when he was defeated by his counterpart Hu Jia at the single 10-meter match in the 2004 Olympic Games, Tian Liang's competitive state slipped and it was said he was dismissed by the diving team.
But when he took along his daughter to participate in the variety show "Dad, Where Are We Going?", he became a focus.
The once gold generation Yang Wei, Li Xiaopeng and Chen Yibing all participated in a variety of variety show.
It is worth mentioning that, Yang Wei and Li Xiaopeng led the Chinese team and won champion in the 2008 Olympic Games men's team. Yang Wei even got his individual all-around gold medal twice and was called as the Almighty King.
And Chen Yibing has become a ring king while leading his team to win the champion in the 2012 Olympic Games men's team.
But after he was misjudged and lost the gold in the London Olympic Games, his magnanimous act won him so many funs.
However, these game players mainly focus on the venue, they just touch and then go at the variety show.
However, no matter whether they are retired or active athletes, they need to provide outstanding performance to win in the entertainment circle.
After all, athletes have just stepped into a new area, so it is just a space state for them in case of capabilities and connection.
Even for Tian Liang and Liu Xuan, who are not new in the entertainment circle, common people always think of their performance at the Olympic Games when mentioning them.
And the introduction of Yang Wei and Li Xiaopeng at the variety show is always Olympic Games Champion.
Compared with these people, Ning Zetao is slightly weaker for the title of Swimming World Championships.
Compared with these people, the title of Ning Zetao, a swimming world championship, is not so great.
Moreover, compared with the withdrawal of Tian Liang, Liu Xuan and Yang Wei, etc. at their peaks, the withdrawal of Ning Zetao at 23 after some setback would cause immeasurable effects to the negative influence of his image.
After all, at the mention of athletes, people's requirements on athletes are "not seeking victory but for no fear of danger". Ning Zetao lags far behind from this point.
At the very least, Ning Zetao can totally rely on his great looks to win the support of thousands of huge fans.
It is a lot more difficult to be famous in the entertainment circle by just relying on good appearance than training.
You have to listen to your inner voice on your life path. But as for how to choose, Ning Zetao should be quite conscious.
