According to foreign media reports, the "green pool" incident of Rio Olympic Games gained much attention because its diving pool water was changed from blue to green.
However, on the morning of the 10th day of the month, the water of the match pool adjacent to the water pool also turned green.
Australian water polo contestant said that his eyes feel tingling and would like to shed tears.
Previously, Rio officials confirmed the situation of water greening, and said the water color is due to the weakening of alkaline reasons and will not affect the athlete's health.
However, after Australian players achieved success with the Japanese delegation in the water polo pool, they said their eyes felt pricking.
When the water of diving pool turned green, the hosting party worked overtime to deal with the diving pool problems in the evening of the 9th day of the month and found the rapid change of water polo pool in the morning of the 10th day of the month.
During the competition period of the Australia and Japanese team, the environmental conditions of the water polo pond gradually worsened, but the official stressed that they would manage to return the water quality of the two pools to their original colors on the 11th day of the month.
Mario Andrada, the spokesman of Rio Olympic Games said, "The alkalinity of water quality in the diving pool firstly turned weak after the yesterday afternoon".
"We learned about a series of causes that could cause discoloration of water and result in the alkalinity of water quality."
The water sports center conducted a series of tests on water quality, and hundreds of divers and swimmers used the swimming pool to determine whether the water quality meets criteria. "
"We have been following the normal procedure these days, but we may have overlooked the impact of more athletes on water quality."
"But the change in water color certainly has no effect on health, especially for athletes."
"This independent team confirms our assessment and confirms the measures we have taken to restore the normal color and normal chemical status of the pool."
"We had hoped that the pool would return to normal color in the morning, but the speed of recovery was affected by the rain."
