Traditional customs introduced a new bright spot "2016 Bon Culture Festival" -The Opening Ceremony of Victoria Park, Hong Kong
Gongs and drums of music, the traditional snacks, fancy decoration and stormy crowd scene.
Organized by the Federation of Hong Kong Chiu Chow Community Organizations, "2016 Bon Culture Festival" was held in Victoria Park between the 12th day and the 14th day of the month. It's the largest grand club in Hong Kong.
In addition to the continuation of the existing "Climbing Competition", "parent basin for the heap" for the entire family is also added.
Bon culture history is introduced in the form of comic books. In addition, Bon theme 3D self-timer area, traditional snack area and traditional craft flow classroom are set up at the scene, attracting many friends and overseas travelers for visit.
A French couple lingered at the scene for almost 3 hours and experienced a lot in the mini flower card flow classroom.
"After knowing this special festival online, I decided to come and I felt quite fresh."
They said, although there are similar festivities commemorating the ancestors, the atmosphere is quite solemn. But here you can enjoy music, food and also can learn traditional craft.
She said, "It is quite pleasant to see sizable and organized ancestor worship ceremony in such a busy financial metropolis of Hong Kong".
"This not only embodies the diversity of Chinese culture, but also allows more people to understand these traditional craft and heritage."
"We do not want to make the Bon Culture Festival very horrifying, which may spook people, especially the children," said Hu Yansong, the chief responsible person of the event.
"We hope that through the youthful activities and layout of the scene, so that young people know that the culture behind the Bon Festival is to express the filial piety and thanksgiving."
He also said that this time a total of 24 teams participated in "climbing competition", which is not only organized by communities, but also in combination with schools and attended by students.
It is understood that the Federation of Hong Kong Chiu Chow Community Organizations is listed as "national intangible cultural heritage list" in 2011.
