In the collective greenhouse of Donglin village of Taicang City, the 48-year-old Wang Xuefen is leading workers to pear spray pesticides on pear trees.
There are 150 acres of orchards and more than 10 species, but only 12 workers plus a technical engineer are ok.
Last year, the income was a total of RMB 50,000. I cannot earn so many if i work in the factory because of such age.
Last year, the income of Donglin village reached RMB 22 million, of which total agricultural income accounted for nearly a half.
According to Su Qifang, the village secretary, per capita land cultivation area increases each year. 50 mu (a unit of area, one "mu"=0.0667 hectares) in the beginning and over 100 mu now. The revenue per mu increases every year and the income of professional farmers also have room for growth every year.
With shares quantifying to each villager, the highlight of the rural collective economic reform is to be clear about the property rights of rural collective management and exploring political and economic separation.
In July 2015, on Anzhen Street of Wuxi Xishan District, 14 rural economic cooperation organizations worked with the village committee to implement "sub-account management". The village committee implemented rural public affairs management while the cooperative organizations were mainly engaged in business.
With two accounts for two institutions, this can prevent the village cadres from participating in collective asset management corruption.
Zhu Baoping, deputy director of the Jiangsu Provincial Agriculture Committee, said that the next step of Jiangsu government is to continue to promote the reform of community cooperation system, encourage farmers to jointly develop and establish a village-level democratic power operation mechanism.
According to Zhu Baoping, they should further move forward the reform, engage in community shares cooperation, quantify the assets to members, fix it to farmers and produce clear property rights.
Through the Internet +, we shall provide farmers with the rights to know, participate in decision-making and democratic management and turn such rights into standardized mechanism of cooperation.
At present, the new collective economy in southern Jiangsu village mainly consists of four development modes, including asset leasing, enterprise stock, agricultural development and joint development.
