At 19:35 today, in one match of the 22nd round of Chinese Football Association Super League, Chongqing Lifan Football Club challenged Beijing Guoan Talent Football Club in the visiting field.
At the 29th minute, Wang Dong led to scoring one ball. At the 39th minute, with assistance by Fernando, the new support Kardec won the first score of the Chinese Football Association Super League. At the 81st minute, Guoan regained a score.
When the match went on for 10 minutes, Lifan made continued hit and gained a chance for corner. Fernando made small-angle volley and was fended off the base line by Guoan.
At the 15th minute, Zhang Xizhe flip through in straight line of the midfield. Ilmaz has been straight for the penalty area and the defensive Liu Yu grab the first leg of the ball and made a fight.
One minute later, Pu Cheng crossed on the left wing and Yu Dabao strafed the unkicked-out part of the mid-way in the penalty area. Lifang goalkeeper Deng Xiaofang confiscated the goal.
Fernando flipped pass the goal in the back-drawing on his right wing. Alan Kardec was put down by Lei Tenglong. The referee sentenced a spot kick and showed a yellow card to Lei Tenglong.
Guoan changed a person at the 37th minute. Zhang Xiaobin left the playing field and Zhang Chiming came on the stage and turned his weapon around to defense.
Alan Kardec get rid of the ball in front of the penalty area and Fernando pushed shot.
This is also the time for Alan Kardec to score in the initial games of Chinese Football Association Super League. Lifan leads in 2:0.
Just in the beginning of the next half, Fernando won any score on the right side by breaking off. It is a pity that he lobbed in small angle.
After Deng Xiaofei received a yellow card in the delaying time, Peng Xinli who is alternative also received a yellow card because he fouled in front of the penalty area.
At the 56th minute, Zhang Chiming hit in his left dribble and worked to transfer with Zhang Xizhe. He was fended off by Deng Xiaofei at the curling shot.
Liu Yu forcefully tackled and intruded Egor Krimets. He and the exciting Wang Dong got the yellow card.
At the 63rd minute, Fernando was knocked down by Egor Krimets when he conducted long-range strike. Fernando was quite dissatisfied with the move of Egor Krimets. Egor Krimets got a yellow card.
One minute later, Fernando showed his long-range raid capability at the right wing. Yu Dabao fouled and also got a yellow card.
Ilmaz restricted area within the line forcibly break, in Zheng Yurong leg to stop the action down to the ground, the referee to determine the penalty, Ilmaz surgeon, Lifan 2: 1 national security.
At the 86th minute, Zhou Ting sent the cross along the right wing. Sergeyev looped after chesting at the mid-way of the penalty area and shot. Deng Xiaofei sent the ball out with wonderful shoot.
4 minutes after the allowance, Lifan kept the 2-1 score to the final and defeated Guoan in the visiting field.
After taking the valuable 3 points, Lifan obtained a total of 27 scores, temporarily ranking the 10th at the scoreboard.
