In late August, Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will go to Kenya to attend the 6th African Development Conference, according to the Evening News Peak of Voice of China.
The African Development Conference was dominated by Japan, and the previous five meetings were held in Tokyo, Japan or Yokohama, so this meeting will be the first move to Africa.
Japanese Foreign Ministry officials said the meeting held in Africa will help to attract attentions of African and European countries to Japan.
In line with the trip of Shinzo Abe, according to Kyodo news agency, the Japanese Liberal Democrats will send parliamentary groups to the countries concerned.
Japan's "application to become a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council" began in the early 90s of the last century while the African-sponsored African Development Conference also began in 1993. This is not a coincidence.
Africa has 53 seats in the United Nations and is therefore an important ticket bunker of the United Nation. How can Japan give up Africa if it wanted to join the United Nations Security Council?
It will also exchange views with national stakeholders on the extreme organization of "Islamic State" and terrorist activities.
"Western Group" will visit seven countries, including Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea Bissau.
Fumio Kishida, the current Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan has also recently stated the intentions of the African Development Conference at the UN Security Council.
Abe has announced here that in order to stabilize the stability of sub-Saharan African countries, it will provide 100 billion yen (about RMB 6.1 billion) in five years.
Observers generally believe that there are two purposes behind Japan's generosity toward Africa: first, to increase Japan's presence in Africa; second, to win the support of African countries on the application to become a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council.
"In terms of politics, Africa is relatively lagging behind, but there are many African countries. So Japan has always regarded it as the so-called 'big ticket field,'" said Yang Bojiang, an expert for Japanese issues.
Japan will not give up in the future and its work on Africa will not be terminated but gradually strengthened.
Economically, Japan enjoys a strong production capacity, but its domestic market is relatively limited. In particular, the domestic demand is relatively weak in the context of aging population.
However, from Junichiro Koizumi, who was Japan's prime minister 10 years ago, to the present Abe, Japan has repeatedly launched the "sprint" scheme. However, all schemes were abandoned eventually.
Yang Bojiang believed that the intension of Japan to become a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council is be clear at a glance. However, the road is bound to be full of obstacles.
To achieve its own goals, Japan should firstly do a good job with the surrounding countries. And Japan needs to have a correct attitude no matter in geopolitical competition or in the national dispute or understanding of a historical problem.
