Prime Minister Manuel Valls wants to establish a new French Islamic foundation, which would act as a bridge between the French state and France's Muslims.
After the terrorist attacks, France is stepping up its fight against radical Islamists, and the government is calling on the Muslim minority to help.
"If Muslims will not help the Republic to fight against those who undermine public freedoms, it will be increasingly hard for the Republic to guarantee their freedom of worship," said Prime Minister Manuel Valls.
He wants to ensure that only clerics trained in France are allowed to practice in mosques and other places of worship.
He also wants to stop funding of mosques from abroad, because the funding is usually accompanied "imported" foreign imams who then spread radical agendas in mosques.
By October, Prime Minister Valls wants to establish a new French Islamic foundation, which would act as a bridge between the French state and France's Muslims.
The new institution will replace the “Foundation for Islam of France”, which was founded in 2005 by former Prime Minister Dominique de Villepin
with the objective to make the financial flows between mosques and countries that that fund their construction more transparent.
It was, however, soon hit by internal divisions, and it never worked properly.
"It is a total failure," said Valls recently.
The new foundation is likely to be headed by Jean-Pierre Chevènement, the former minister of interior and defence, who is known as a supporter of the secular state.
There are roughly 2,500 mosques and places of worship in France, of which some 120 are thought to be under the influence of radical Islam.
Since 2012, authorities have expelled about 80 of Imams and dozens are currently under consideration.
This week, the German police also took action against radical clerics,
who were allegedly recruiting fighters for the Islamic State.
One of them operated a facility which was reportedly radicalising believers who later attacked a Sikh temple in Essen.
In the aftermath of the attack on the Charlie Hebdo magazine in January 2015, a debate over a new institution that would replace the largely defunct foundation ignited in France.
This urgency has been augmented by further terrorist attacks in France carried out by radicalised Islamists in the name of the Islamic State.
It will have two main tasks - to ensure that mosques are funded from domestic sources and to monitor imams.
It is not clear yet how the new foundation will be funded, even though a number of proposals are being considered.
One of them would be a special charge on halal food, i.e. mainly meat from animals slaughtered according to Islamic principles.
This charge would, in practice, be paid by the vendors of halal food for certification.
Part of this money would then go to the foundation.
Another option would be for French pilgrims heading to Mecca to pay a contribution of ten to twenty euros.
Every year, around 30,000 French Muslims go on this pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia.
In addition, only preachers trained at local universities should be permitted to practice in mosques.
This is designed to ensure that sermons are compatible with democracy.
The government is also shutting down radical mosques.
"We have shut down twenty mosques since December and other will follow," said the Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve.
"There is no place in France for those who preach hatred and do not respect the principles of our country, such as equality between women and men," he said.
