Thirty years ago, at a time when I was about to retire, my wife of thirty years started an affair with our neighbour, who was twenty years her junior.
I knew about it from the start - she was first pursuing him quite openly before they got together.
He was quite a big guy, probably her type as she dated a similar type before me.
She was head over heels in love with him.
In those first days, her voice even changed; she suddenly had such a girly, infatuated voice.
However, when I told her that I knew what was going on she denied it.
I was watching the whole thing.
He used to arrive at home from work at half past three and she always left at three to go shopping.
She tried to see him at least once every day.
Later, I figured out that they were meeting in the house where he lived, in the laundry room.
There were many times I knew that they were at that very moment.
I managed to get the keys and I was determined to catch them there inflagranti.
I do not know why, but in the end, I always stayed at home.
I was incapable of taking the decisive step and going there.
You may find if funny, but I am convinced that my wife was controlling me with her mind.
I think that she found out early on that she can control me to make me do what she wanted.
And I actually did it.
Maybe I am just a looser.
At the same time, my other neighbours also hinted that they knew about the affair.
I was a fool because I never asked them what I should do.
I was scared that if push came to shove, things would get really bad.
Only my daughter thought that this may have an impact on everyone in the family.
As the time passed, I kept procrastinating.
Once I went to see him in his flat, and I told him that I needed help with something in the laundry room.
He went there with me, and I told him that I received an anonymous letter accusing him of having an affair with my wife, and that I was inclined to believe it.
I asked him what he had to say.
He stood there, shrugged and said nothing.
At the time, I also bumped into his wife on her way from the shops.
I told her about it, but she did not believe it.
She did not react and did not say anything.
Nobody said anything to me at the time.
I am a type of person who does not go out much, and I always found it difficult to meet new people, let alone women.
Hence, I was not really contemplating a divorce.
I still hoped that it would end one day.
I told myself that I would forgive her everything and life would go on.
This is not how it went down,
and I have never really come to terms with it.
I am still keeping those feelings inside.
I used to show her how I felt, but in the end, I stopped to keep the peace.
He still lives next door, and I still live with her,
the only difference being that she is more of a housekeeper than my wife.
She always did everything at home - she did the cooking, washing, cleaning up.
She has always been a hard worker.
I think she wanted to make sure that I do not have another reason to complain.
I can also say that she is kind.
Sometimes I would like to touch and hug her but she would not let me.
We keep going together for walks and shopping, and everyone thinks we have a happy marriage.
She said to me once that she never loved me.
She said that she always had been fond of me, but she never loved me.
I can see that she still loves him, she worships him like a god.
I am tired of such a life.
Back when it all started, and I was taking it very badly, I once said to her that I no longer wanted to live and asked how she would feel if I ended it.
I wanted to know whether she would agree with it.
All I wanted to hear is
She thought about it for a while and then she said:
