Rolls with asparagus, wakame seaweed, ginger and chilli sauce.
While summer is the time to enjoy light, easily digestible meals, we Czechs are rebels, and we are quite stubborn when it comes to our tastes.
Our al fresco restaurants like to serve grilled pork, brisket or pork knuckles.
Nothing too healthy, nothing too light, except perhaps for a salad or roasted vegetables here and there.
Barbecuing not only saves time and crockery, it is also a social event without anyone having to spend hours in the kitchen.
However, there are alternatives how to prepare treats, which will inject some variety into dining. Their preparation is a bit of a ritual but on the other hand, there is no need to spend hours in the kitchen baking, frying or stewing anything.
What is more, they will make you healthier.
Whether it's homemade sushi or sashimi, where quality ingredients and a bit of skill will make the preparation enjoyable and the food itself a real exotic delicacy.
This also applies to the even easier rice paper rolls from today's recipe,
which allows you to skip the more time-consuming cooking and cooling of rice.
You only need to submerge the paper for a few seconds in water and the rest with regard to the filling and ingredients is up to the cook and his imagination.
All seaweed is not created the same.
The advantage of Asian cuisine these days is that the ingredients are today readily available.
Including the pickled sweet and sour ginger, which is one of the basic accompaniments for fresh sushi or rolls.
You can make it at home, but the genuine pink gari ginger has unique spicy and delicious taste thanks to a secret recipe, which is used to make it from various types of vinegar and ginger.
All you have to do is to buy a bag of this stuff in the right size and you will have a side dish with proven antibacterial efficacy and supporting digestion and to boost immunity against coughing or the flu.
Banana leaves.
They are used primarily in Buddhist and Hindu cultures when serving and decorating dishes for a variety of ceremonial occasions and rituals.
Long ribbed banana leaves are widespread in many countries in Asia and South America as tools to prepare a variety of baked, boiled or fried foods, which are packed into them like in an aluminium foil.
Banana leaves also lend food a specific flavour.
They are available here in specialised stores selling exotic fruits and vegetables, pre-cut into pieces.
Only choose leaves that are bright green and healthy, i.e. without cracks and spots
The preparation of a salad made from wakame seaweed, sesame and sesame oil is similarly straight forward.
This is available frozen.
Those who often eat or prepare sushi will be familiar with nori seaweed.
In Japan, it is one of the most important species of seaweed, which is cut, pressed and dried to prepare nori leaves, which in turn are used to prepare sushi.
Wakame − the dark green seaweed growing in the waters around the island of Hokkaido − can be eaten fresh or dried and is as popular as nori.
Most people are familiar with wakame miso soup, which is said to have been used by Asian women since ancient times to recover after childbirth.
In general, this seaweed is considered to have miraculous powers.
It purifies the blood, strengthens blood circulation, it is also said to prevent the greying of hair, and it is packed with minerals.
Dried and shredded wakame is also used as a spice for seasoning rice, for example.
Fresh seaweed should be first leached in water then rinsed, plunged into boiling water and cooked for 30 seconds.
Next, they cool it in ice water, cut out the centre ribbing and processed further to prepare e.g. this popular salad.
Nevertheless, it is much easier to buy the ready-made, frozen version of the product.
All that remains is to prepare a roll with a simple vegetable filling, which is both delicious and light and full of healthy flavours.
This is such a fountain of youth.
You have to resist adding a grilled pork belly.
Healthy & light summer dishes
Asians know how to do this.
All you need is a few special ingredients and bit of skill, and you will create an interesting, fresh meal, which is a delicious combination of various flavours.
It is finished in no time.
Four pieces of rice paper, 40 g carrots 40 g white radish, 100 g green asparagus, 60 g cucumber 60 g wakame seaweed and 60 g of sweet chilli sauce.
Handful of chopped coriander, teaspoon black sesame, teaspoon sriracha chili sauce, 20 g mango and 40 g pickled gari ginger, a few pine nuts.
First, we will prepare the rolls.
Soak the rice paper for five seconds in the cold water.
Next, take it out and wait until it softens.
In the meantime, cook the asparagus tips briefly in hot water and cool them in cold water after roughly three minutes.
We place the vegetable filling on the softened paper and wrap it.
We will prepare the filling from white radish, carrots and cucumber, cut into fine strips, mix them with sweet chilli sauce, add chopped coriander, mix it thoroughly and add to the rice paper.
We place the asparagus tips on the banana leaf, add the rolls and garnish the dish with wakame seaweed, pickled ginger, a slice of mango and we sprinkle black sesame and pine nuts on the top.
