Ambassador: No known Finnish victims in the Thailand attacks
The bomb attacks in Thailand that happened during last evening and night (CET) killed at least four people.
The Embassy advises all the Finnish people in the country to be watchful and to avoid the busiest tourist areas, and to follow the authorities’ directions.
Those Finnish tourists that are planning to travel to Thailand should not cancel their journey because of the explosions, but they should follow the Embassy’s advice about caution, says Westphalen.
Very few Finns in Thailand
According to Westphalen, currently there are very few Finns in Thailand, although their exact numbers are difficult to estimate.
Finns’ travelling season to Thailand takes place around turn of the year.
Most travellers to Thailand this time of year come from Southern Europe and China.
After the bomb attacks, the Finnish Embassy has got some comments via Facebook from Finns in Thailand.
The Embassy has attempted to contact especially those Finns that are in Hua Hin, in order to get information about the town’s situation.
However, several of our contacts in Hua Hin are currently out of town.
Generally speaking everything seems to be fine, Westphalen says.
No information about the responsible party
According to Westphalen, there is no information about who is responsible for the attack.
The ambassador thinks the incidents may be connected to the political unrest in Thailand’s disunited society, and to the referendum last week about the constitution drawn up by the military junta.
The law passed in the referendum.
The referendum was not an open, democratic process.
In the country people got for example arrested, when they had declared that they oppose the law.
As for the Southern provinces in Thailand, there smoulders an ethnic-racial conflict related to the Muslim population, says Westphalen.
The Muslims want to increase their autonomy.
However, there has not been any earlier attacks to tourist attractions.
There was a big, local festival day in Bangkok today, says Westphalen.
According to her, the city is celebrating the Queen's birthday and Mothers’ Day.
There isn’t a lot of traffic in the city.
The attack most likely have such an effect on the daily routines that the authorities will be very strict about security.
