Thailand police: The attacks are not international terrorism
According to the police, the attacks are “local sabotage” and differ from customary terrorist attacks.
Also Islamic terrorism has been ruled out, Thailand police report according to the news agency AP.
At least four people have died in Thailand during 24 hours, as 11 bombs have exploded around the country, like for example in tourist favourites Phuket and Hua Hin.
There were four bombs that exploded in a tourist attraction also favoured by the Finns, on holiday island Phuket, reports Thai newspaper Bangkok Post.
According to current information, they did not claim any lives.
The paper says two of the bombs exploded on Patong Beach.
In addition, two bombs exploded in Phang Nga, where one person was wounded, according to the paper.
In a popular tourist attraction, Hua Hin, the local authorities report that a total of four bombs has exploded yesterday and today.
Both double bombings killed at least one.
Furthermore, at least one bomb exploded in both the village of Surat Thani and the city of Trang in South-Thailand.
Both bombings killed at least one.
Also Surat Thani is familiar to many a traveller, since the way to Ko Samui, Ko Pha Ngan, and Ko Tao holiday islands goes through it.
The quarter responsible for the attacks is not known
According to Prayut Chan-O-Cha, head of the military junta ruling Thailand, the quarter responsible for the attacks is so far not known.
The bombs are an attempt to create chaos and confusion.
We should not stir up any more panic in the people, he said to the journalists.
According to Gen. Prawit Wongsuwan, Deputy Prime Minister in charge of security, at least the Hua Hin and Trang attacks are linked.
He said to Thai BSB that the offenders’ purpose has been to destroy the tourism in the country, since all the attacks happened in tourist attractions.
The Finnish Embassy advises all the Finnish people in the country to be watchful and to avoid the busiest tourist areas, and to follow the authorities’ directions.
Those Finns that are planning to travel to Thailand should not cancel their journey because of the explosions, but they should follow the Embassy’s advice about caution, says Westphalen.
Europeans among the wounded
So far, there is very little information about the attacks that happened during the Finnish night time or their victims.
A little more information has been received from the yesterday evening’s attack in Hua Hin.
A local woman died and over 20 others were injured in it, and among the wounded there were at least nine foreign tourists.
There are at least German, Italian, Dutch, and Austrian people among the wounded.
At least three people were wounded in the second Hua Hin attack.
Two bombs exploded near a clock tower known as an attraction.
Thai PBS reports that the police have roped of the Hua Hin area they believe to have found yet another bomb.
According to the province governor, the Surat Thani bomb was hidden in a flowerbed.
One municipality employee died in the attack.
At least one was wounded.
The chief of police said in the CNN interview that there were two bombs used also in the Surat Thani attack, and that they went off about at about half an hour interval.
According to the Bangkok Post, the bombs exploded in front of two different police stations.
