Ihalainen concerning tax reductions: Pensioners’ taxation still harder
Pensioners’ taxation is still tighter than the wage-earners’.
Ihalainen says this disadvantage emerged just before the general election, and it was promised the pensioners’ taxation would be made more equal compared to the wage-earners.
There is nothing like this in the Government’s proposal.
We think it should definitely be there.
Given promises should be kept after the election, he says to Lännen Media.
In the beginning of this year, wage-earners got income tax deductions that reduces the taxation.
The issue heated up the members of the opposition, who grilled the then Minister of Finance, Alexander Stubb (Coalition), about the election promises.
Purchasing power secured, will not grow
According to Ihalainen, the tax deductions in the definition of policy presented by the Minister of Finance, Petteri Orpo (Coalition), are more about securing purchase power than increasing it, because wages will not be raised next year.
He says the tax deduction has a positive impact on purchase power and employment, if there are no other things that add to people’s uncertainty.
Ihalainen is pleased with the Prime Minister Juha Sipilä's (Centre) and Orpo’s messages about the will to respect the hard-won competitiveness pact .
He says adhering to the pact is important credibility-wise.
It is the most important action in both economic and employment policies.
It is done jointly with the labour market organisations, so it should not be spoiled by challenging it.
It is necessary, because the economy relies so much on the domestic demand and on people's own optimism about the future.
Prolonged unemployment must be discussed in the government budget session
Ihalainen appeals to the Government to discuss long-term unemployment in its budget session, at least to stop its increase.
In June, there were 17,000 more long-term unemployed people than a year before.
He says that if this growth will not stop, the Government’s goal of increasing the employment rate to 72 per cent will be lost.
He warns that if the challenge posed by prolonged unemployment is overlooked, it will mean a very large societal bill.
