Usain Bolt’s final Olympic show begins in Rio
Like in recent years, before elite competitions, Bolt has been running against time.
Early in the season, he hurt his back thigh, and had to pass Olympic qualifications in Jamaica.
It has not been the perfect build-up but I am in much better shape
I've been training well, and that’s the key thing, Bolt said in his press conference in Rio.
That press conference included scantily clad Samba dancers and reporters that had turned into fans.
The murmuring around Bolt underlines that fact that the star of the Jamaican has risen during the age when athletics has struggled with doping scandals and sliding interest.
Bolt previous defeat in Olympic games was in Athens 2004, when he was eliminated in 200 metres preliminaries with a time of 21,05.
Back then Bolt, aged 17, was a young promise slowed down by injuries and lax attitude towards practising.
Four years later in Beijing, he started his reign on the hundred metres, when he crushed the world record and the competitors’ self-confidence with a time of 9,69, reached despite the final celebrations.
This is harder
A year later in the World Championship in Berlin, Bolt reached the culmination of his career when measured with time.
The world records from Berlin, 9,58 for hundred metres and 19,19 for two hundred, are still valid.
Bolt has announced that in Rio his goals are the world record for 200 metres and going under 19 seconds, but no one believes this besides Bolt himself.
On 100m Bolt’s biggest challenger is Justin Gatlin, who one Olympic gold in Athens 2004 for this distance.
Last year in Beijing WC finals Bolt won the American by only one hundredth of a second.
During his reign that began in Beijing, Bolt has not lost once in an elite competition finals, if only he has managed to start.
In Daegu 2011, Bolt did not run in the 100m WC finals because of a false start.
In bit over a week, Bolt will be 30.
He is an old man in young men’s sport, and Rio games are his final Olympics.
Bolt has set the final finish line for his career to be next year's WC games in London.
These are the Olympics that separate me from the pack.
I’m older now, and it’s harder for me.
But anytime I start feeling really down, I remind myself, you have got to get this done this year, Bolt said three months ago in a Sports Illustrated interview.
