Jari Sillanpää's Satulinna was recorded after a couple of hours sleep: “I was so hung-over”
Jari Sillanpää has been one of the Finns’ favourite artists already for over 20 years.
From a barman on a cruise ship to Tango King in 1995, to the best-selling solo artist in Finland and to a star of dance pavilions and festival - Sillanpää just keeps rolling along, and has a great momentum at the moment.
The book, Jari Sillanpää - Paljaana, written by Mari Koppinen, tells about the life of the favourite singer and was published today, on Thursday.
In the book Sillanpää narrates his life and career, be it positive or negative.
Sillanpää’s career soared when he won the crown of the Tango King at Seinäjoki Tangomarkkinat festival in 1995.
In the competition Sillanpää sang tangos, but already then he had planned somewhat different music for himself.
In the spring of 1995, Jukka Kuoppamäki had composed a tango for Sillanpää at his request, and Kassu Halonen then arranged it to a slightly different form.
And the song ‘Satulinna’ did become one of the most popular songs in Finnish music history.
The book tells that the recording of the song did not quite go according to plans: Sillanpää had a terrible hangover when he sang the song on tape, and he had only slept for a couple of hours.
We’d had a party the previous night.
I was so hung-over!
Sillanpää recalls in the book.
Based on the recording of the song that became an enormous hit, one wouldn’t guess that it was sang while hangover.
Even though I wasn’t physically at my best, the result was still good.
I learned that you don’t have to require perfection and top result from yourself all the time.
Another incident, narrated in the book and relating to his most popular songs, happened almost two decades later.
In 2013, Sillanpää separated from his then partner, and the incident also ended up in the texts of ‘Sinä ansaitset kultaa’ song that was published as a single in 2014.
The book relates that the lyrics that were commissioned from Saara Törmänen weren't what Sillanpää would've wanted.
Sillanpää had imagined he was doing a record that tells a true story of his own life, but the lyrics of the song about break-up weren’t true, but written based on a piece of news from 7 päivää magazine.
In the magazine article the reason given for the break-up between Jari and his ex-love was Jari’s excessive partying and drinking, but this is pure nonsense according to Jari and simply not true.
According to book, Jari was furious when he called to the record company and refused to sing the song, but finally decided on singing it - and that’s good.
