Aberdeen real estate fund prepared for Brexit with cash
One of the funds was Aberdeen Asset Management, whose real estate investments are managed by a Finn Pertti Vanhanen.
According to him, Aberdeen prepared for Brexit in time by working out A and B plans.
The preparation for Plan B, the victory of those supporting leaving EU, began more closely a couple of weeks before the vote in case the result would be leave.
The concern was that the investors would begin to withdraw their funds away from the market.
Usually a real estate fund does not have large liquid assets, but now they could be necessary.
We began to increase cash assets.
When Brexit happened on the 23rd, we had 25 per cent of the fund investments either in cash or as liquid assets, says Vanhanen about Aberdeen’s only daily quoted real estate fund the news concerned.
According to Vanhanen, the normal level would be 15-20 per cent.
The fund value then was £3.5 bn.
Usually the company’s funds’ value is about £20 bn.
This is the highest amount in nine open-end real estate funds, Vanhanen says about all open-end real estate funds in Britain.
He estimates that the lowest cash amount in these funds remained at 10 per cent or even lower.
So the real estate funds had very different strategies in preparing for Brexit.
Funds closing the trade
When the camp supporting EU exit won, Europe went mad.
About two weeks following the vote were, however, very quiet on the real estate market, says Vanhanen.
Then two things happened that changed the situation.
The first was a speech by Mark Carney, the Governor of the Bank of England, in which he estimated that Brexit can be a big risk for commercial real estate actors.
In addition, the first of the real estate funds, Standard Life, froze its trade.
These together turned the situation upside down, and highlighted the issue in the headlines of the Financial Times and the BBC.
The situation was immediately compared to years 2007 and 2008, says Vanhanen.
This made the investors nervous.
The institutional investors stayed calmer, but the private investors were nervous.
The snowball began to roll, and a fund after another had to close its doors.
The Aberdeen situation was good because of the collected cash assets, but in the end it, too, had to freeze its trade for six days.
According to Vanhanen, they did not exactly close the trade, but changed the pricing downwards.
In practice, the investors were given, according to him, time to consider whether they should withdraw the money in panic.
The message of Aberdeen was that if you do not have to withdraw your money now, it is not profitable, because it would result in losses.
That calmed the situation, and the most cancelled their notice.
After that, things have been quite even, and for a couple of weeks now, the market has been very calm, says Vanhanen.
He notes that for example Aberdeen's Continental Europe funds have had no such agitation.
There were a lot of inquiries, though.
Excessive attention to real estate funds
According to Vanhanen, the stops of real estate funds’ trading got excessive attention.
The open-end funds the closing affected control about four per cent of the British estates.
The Aberdeen stop lasted six days, and the company sold less than 10 of its 80 estates located in London.
Some other funds are still closed.
This week, Aviva Investors warned its investors that it may keep its funds closed until 2017.
At the moment there is a lot of uncertainty around, and the economy growth predictions have been adjusted downwards, but the situation does not look “wilder” relative to Aberdeen.
The biggest questions now relate to the future development of British national economy.
Despite the uncertainty, the situation has brought even new possibilities to some real estate investors, notes Vanhanen.
The pound and dollar rates are lowest in 30 years, and there is a 15 per cent discount on the market compared to pre-Brexit vote time period.
A dollar buyer can now buy the same estate for as much as 30 per cent less.
There are a low of willing buyers, says Vanhanen.
