7 curious things that, according to science, prolong your life
Science has studied everything possible between the heaven and the earth.
These things have been proven to bring extra years to a person’s life.
Some of these thing are habits that, either directly or indirectly, will affect a person’s health in a way that prolongs their life.
Sometimes the things a person can’t influence themselves can bring them extra years.
These are for example tendency towards abdominal obesity or social status.
Going shopping regularly can prolong your life.
It’s not always even necessary to spend - just picking up a carton of milk is enough.
There are many studies that have aimed at discovering the secret behind long age.
Medical Daily presented seven of the most peculiar research results.
According to science, all of these things may bring you more years for your life.
Drinking beer and coffee
Drinking coffee has been shown to provide a protective effect against certain cancers, type 2 diabetes, as well as Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease.
According to the study by Harvard University, moderate coffee consumption was linked to a “lower risk of death”, especially from heart and neurological diseases.
As for alcohol, there are studies that say drinking a moderate amount of one to three drinks a day may prolong your life.
For example, one study found wine drinkers were more likely to outlive those who did not drink at all.
Regular flossing can possibly add more than six years to a person’s life, according to a research.
The claim is based on the fact this prevents inflamed gums.
These in turn can lead to increase in the risk of developing other diseases throughout the body.
A study conducted in Norway found out how laughing affects your lifespan.
A seven-year-project tracked over 54,000 people.
Those who laughed more were 35 per cent more likely to still be alive at the end of the study.
Sex, when the protection against STDs is taken into consideration, is good for your health according to many studies.
In addition, it can also add years to your life.
Unfortunately, just having sex as it is, is not enough.
In order for a person to gain extra years to their life, they also need to climax.
Being physically active sure brings extra years, there’s no denying that.
However, long life doesn’t necessarily require absolute leanness.
A study from Oxford University found out that women with a bigger backside tended to have lower levels of cholesterol.
They also had higher levels of omega-3 fatty acids in their system.
The same study connected these things to an overall lower risk of mortality.
Whether it’s a person who earned a medal in the Olympics or an actor who won an Oscar, they are more likely to live longer than your average man.
Many studies have attempted to find a reason for the phenomenon.
One explanation could be that an ambitious person most likely lives in a way that brings extra years to their life.
Some researchers speculate that long life is caused by the person’s social status - which for its part enables the pursuit of accolades such as the Nobel prize.
A study of shopping behaviour of people ages 65 and older found that a person who goes shopping every day is more likely to live longer than someone who shops less.
This is because going to a concrete shop reduces loneliness.
That, on its turn, has been shown to trigger biological changes that may lead to an early death.
So put down that credit card - online shopping does not have the same effect.
