Brexit brought drawbacks to London property market
At two o’clock in the morning, the situation did not yet look too good.
But at four, when Pertti Vanhanen, who is in charge of British real estate fund Aberdeen Asset Management’s property investments, woke up to recheck the results of the Brexit vote, the situation had changed.
I had to use a swearword.
I realised that we had to soon rely on plan B, Vanhanen says in his other home in Helsinki.
He headed for work straight away.
London City was already full awake, despite it still being the small hours.
The TV screens in the office, usually muted, were now blaring the news, and the people, usually loud, were completely silent and listening to Prime Minister David Cameron as he stepped in front of the camera in the morning to tell about his resignation.
When the market opened, the terminals were all blinking red.
It was a morning you’d never expect to live, Vanhanen says.
Not just because, despite the turbulence, Aberdeen, one of the largest real estate funds in Britain, finalised two real estate deals on the day after the Brexit vote, at Midsummer.
The atmosphere was confused.
The company had been preparing well for this alternative, and in that sense, the situation was kind of calm, Vanhanen says.
The Brexit vote began a correction
A storm followed the vote.
The pound collapsed, the command of Britain was changed.
The market began to anticipate heavy fall in British real estate market, and especially in London.
The decline in London office space was anticipated to be as much as 20 per cent in the following years.
Soon a number of British real estate funds began to freeze their trade, one after another.
Also Aberdeen did that for six days.
Now the storm has abated, but there is still uncertainty in the air.
However, it doesn’t show on the face of Vanhanen, who was spending his final summer vacation days this week in Helsinki.
According to him, it is still too early to say much about the consequences of Brexit.
So much is still open: how the exit will happen, and how Scotland will react to the situation, for example.
There have already been some early information about the development of London real estate market.
The price development data from a real estate service company CBRE cover about a third of the market.
According to this data, all the real estate prices in London went down 3,3 per cent from June to July.
In London City office buildings the price drop was 6,1 per cent, lists Vanhanen.
The numbers are not so bad, but they are monthly changes.
The monthly index publishing was began in 1987, and there have been worse numbers only in five months, says Vanhanen.
All the drops as big as this coincided with the crisis years of 2007 and 2008.
This is interesting also because Brexit was very quickly compared to Lehman fall and the global economy crisis that began from the U.S. real estate market.
Vanhanen thinks that this comparison is not quite apposite, because this is a homespun British crisis.
Even the atmosphere is different.
There has been no panic selling like then, but more a willingness to sell in order to improve liquidity, Vanhanen says.
Even the financing is normal.
We could have faced a correction in any case
As a matter of fact, he thinks the price correction is not a miracle, we could have faced that in any case, even without Brexit.
According to Aberdeen’s estimation, the real estate prices in London and other number one cities in the world have been too high already for years.
For two years now, we have said that the City and especially the offices are overpriced, says Vanhanen.
Therefore the drop began from very high.
There are four reasons, why London prices have climbed up, lists Vanhanen.
The British economy has grown strongly, and so has the population in London.
Another big trend is that the real estate is the last class of ownership to be globalised, says Vanhanen.
There are new market actors from the Middle East and Asia, and more and more institutions and also private investors are looking for real estate investments abroad.
As a well-known city, London is an easy target.
In addition, the prices have been fed by the low interest level that has driven for example the pension administration organisations to seek profits from new targets.
And, on top of that, loan has been easily available, even though Vanhanen says that the leverage has been used clearly less than during the boom before the 2008 crisis.
Diversify, diversify
The price ascent in London was stabilised last summer, says Vanhanen.
Even Aberdeen began to lighten their holdings in London, and was indeed a net seller last year.
Some kind of a turn was to be expected, and here it is.
What will happen now?
It depends on how British national economy will develop, says Vanhanen.
He does not dare to estimate much, but he says that there will probably be no bounce.
The atmosphere indicates that the going will be downward or level.
Vanhanen has already seen several up and down movements, because he has been in the real estate business since 1988.
And he is still an optimist who believes that work will see us through holes.
If you are well prepared for risks, you have a better position.
He believes in global diversification.
If you have invested too much in one market, you are its victim.
If you have diversified, also the risks have been diversified, says Vanhanen.
