The Japanese prefer Finland from the Nordic countries - tourists are tempted with auroras: In the autumn it is possible to see a fantastic mirror aurora
The purpose of the campaign is to tempt the Japanese to begin their aurora trips already early in the autumn, Visit Finland says in a press release.
The main attractions for the Japanese aurora travel are Inari and Levi.
The aurora borealis are the main assets for our winter travel, and they are strongly connected with midwinter and snowy landscapes.
There is a good demand for wintery aurora trips to Lapland, but now we attempt to increase the sales of autumn trips.
Not many know that the aurora season begins already early in the autumn and continues until late in the spring.
During autumn it is possible to see the so-called mirror aurora, where the surface of a lake reflects the aurora, thus making the vision twice as fantastic, acting Marketing Manager Anne Lind describes in the press release.
The main target group for Visit Finland’s aurora campaign are the wealthy, city-living Japanese women between 25 and 35 years, who dream about travelling and new experiences.
They are already interested in Finland, its nature and design.
Tourists are attracted to Finland using for example online advertising.
Researchers from Aalto University and from universities of Turku and Tokyo carried out a survey, according to which Finland’s country image is exceptionally strong and positive among the Japanese when compared to other Nordic countries.
However, the Japanese do wish for clearer unique attractions from Finland, and this is where aurora have enormous potential, according to Lind.
The overnight stays of Japanese tourists have grown significantly more in Finland than in other Nordic countries.
Last year they overnighted in Finland over twice more than in Sweden, Denmark or Norway.
From the point of view of Finnish travel, the Japanese as a target group are interesting, because they spend over 80 million euros in Finland.
On average, the Japanese spent 183 euros a day in Finland, says Lind.
