Pamela Tola got giant indemnification for a mouldy home
Actress Pamela Tola and her ex-husband, CEO Pauli Waroma, have won a hard argument about a house they bought from Espoo in 2009.
The purchase price of a two-storey detached house had been 330,000 euros.
After the closing of the deal, a serious moisture problem was revealed in the house, causing unhealthy microbe growth.
The couple had to sell the house to be demolished in 2014.
The price had dropped to 132,000 euros, so Tola and Waroma’s financial loss was no less than 198,000 euros.
The couple filed the matter in court and there claimed a price reduction from the seller.
The seller contested the claim, but Tola and Waroma won the case in both the District Court and the Court of Appeal.
The Court of Appeal passed judgement on the matter on Wednesday.
It retained in force the District Court judgement by which the seller was imposed to pay a price reduction of 150,000 euros to Tola and Waroma.
In addition, the seller has to cover the couple’s legal and settlement costs for a total of 47,000 euros.
The price reduction was made slightly equitable by the court, since buyers did know some of the house’s needs for repairs when they were buying the home.
However, according to the Court of Appeals, the construction defects that appeared were significantly more serious than what had been presented.
Tola was looking for a house in good condition
At the Court of Appeal Tola told that the couple had been specifically looking for a home in good condition, since they didn’t want to do repair work.
She had formed an understanding that the building had been renovated and was in good condition, and that there would be no disadvantages from the matters mentioned in the condition inspection report.
The risks and defects mentioned in the condition inspection report were ventilation and that the management of rain and melt waters running along the rock surface was not sufficient.
Based on the discussions it wasn’t however revealed that this would be an urgent matter at all.
Tola and Waroma had the impression that the rain waters from the rock should probably be slightly directed within a couple of years.
The deal was closed in October 2009.
Within a few years it appeared that the humidity problems of the house were much more serious than previously thought.
In inspections in 2012 and 2013, microbe growth was found from the building. According to witnesses, this was caused both by the rock rain waters and earth humidity that had risen to the surface by capillary action.
According to the inspector’s evaluation, on the west side of the house microbe-infested air could also enter to the inside of the house through the porch.
Mould or yeast that enables a health risk and exceeds the limit values was found in smear samples taken from the utility room, basement staircase, living room bay window, and basement washroom.
The patios were built without permits.
There was also argument in the court about whether the house had been extended against the building permit.
The court held that before closing of the deal, Tola and Waroma were not aware of the Espoo city decision that there had been changes to the house that were against the permit.
For example the patios had been built even though there were no proper permits yet.
However, the mould problems were the crucial matter at court.
According to the Court of Appeal, based on the information they got from the seller before the deal, the buyers had reason to assume that the building was suitable for living as is, and that there was no need for large repairs in the near future.
In the Court of Appeal’s opinion, Tola and Waroma had no special reason to conduct an unusually extensive inspection.
The buyers have not neglected their duty to investigate, stated the Court of Appeal in its decision.
