In June the Brits managed to surprise even themselves by voting their kingdom out of the EU.
In the end, 52 per cent of the voters supported the exit and 48 per cent would have stayed in the union, even though the opinion polls from the vote week anticipated an opposite result.
The economists and economic institutions of Britain were nearly unanimous in supporting staying in the EU.
Not one of the respected research institutes or universities carried the exit flag, even though a couple of individual researchers dared to differ from the mainstream of their profession.
The basic mantra of the Western politics, the catchphrase from the election campaign of the ex-US President Bill Clinton, “It's the economy, stupid”, was scrapped in Britain’s Brexit vote.
The economists were shocked, when their voices were not heard.
They were shocked, when it seemed that economy was not the most important thing in politics.
Economic curly speech
In its latest monthly questionnaire, the Centre for Macroeconomics demands answers for Brexit disaster from the professional society.
The most typical answer is that the economists were not listened to, because this time the voters based their decision on something other than economic grounds.
One economist explanation for the loss of economy's position is that people do not understand the economy.
Many still have an image that the number of jobs does not depend on the number of working people, so that it is almost constant.
If an immigrant gets a job, it is taken from a real Brit.
Many also have an impression that it would be a good thing if the value of the currency fell, since it promotes the exporting industries.
According to the economist base, the voters did not believe the economic arguments, since the unanimity of the economists did not come up enough.
They were especially annoyed by the BBC impartiality that gave the same space both to those economists supporting the EU exit that only present a couple of per cent of the economist base, and the overwhelming majority.
The press, hostile to EU, were not interested in mentioning what IFS, IFM, BoE, CEPR, LSE, and other powerful economic letter combinations thought of the exit consequences.
Those distant letter combinations spoke facelessly about economic growth, trade relations, national debt, and currency.
And if the economists’ messages were both listened to and understood, then they were disregarded, because the economists present such elite with which the voters do not think to have anything in common.
The big city academics such as economists would have stayed in the EU, but in small towns and in countryside the message was ineffective.
Immigration is also economy
The overwhelming winning argument in the Brexit vote concerned immigration.
An immigrant will take your job, an immigrant will jam your hospitals, an immigrant will abuse you.
These were the arguments that worked.
Every cafe has foreign employees.
How many more jobs would the Brits have, if they were to leave?
There are immigrants in every waiting room of every health centre.
How much easier would it be for a Brit to have a doctor's appointment, if they weren’t here?
Every school has immigrants’ children, too.
How much easier would it be for the children of a true Brit to have a school place, if we could get rid of them?
There are foreigners living in every municipality.
How much more space would the natives have, if they would vanish?
I feel these are economic questions.
They concern jobs, accommodation, and public services.
The economists did not manage to answer them, however, and even if they did, their answers did not get any visibility.
The economists did not succeed in explaining that thanks to immigrants, the Brits have more jobs, less health centre queues, and more money in education and social security than before.
Immigrants, and above all EU immigrants, are net contributors to the British public economy, and their spending creates jobs.
