A spine-chilling find from the archives: hundreds of thousands of women wanted to bear children for the Nazis - the register also includes Finns
Journalist Christopher Andersson describes in his recent article in Dagens Nyheter, how there are microfilms in the National Archives in Maryland, U.S., that contain documents concerning a total of 218,000 women, who all wanted to marry an SS man.
Most of the women are German, but there are also American, French, Dutch, and Russian women.
In addition, there were at least 65 Danish, 86 Norwegian, 14 Finnish, and 31 Swedish women who wanted to be Nazi brides.
The documents and register cards that come from the Race Office that operated in Nazi Germany.
The Race office operated under SS leader Heinrich Himmler.
None of SS men in Nazi Germany were allowed to have children before they were examined by an SS doctor.
The same was even more true to women, who had to be able to give birth to even more than 10 children.
According to Andersson, women were given gynaecological examinations to confirm this.
The Race Office checked the women’s backgrounds by checking for example the church registers.
The goal was to ensure that there were no Jews in the women’s family tree.
The women also had to be ready to give up their Swedish citizenship, and to give the Race Office their handwritten biographies, and good references from their next of kin.
The Race Office wanted guarantees of the women being “fond of children”, “frugal”, and “good National Socialists”, who could speak German well.
The women who did not fulfil these requirements were not accepted as brides for the SS men.
The story does not tell, what happened to the 14 Finnish women found from the archive’s documents.
The SS leaders created a state-supported programme known as Lebensborn in 1936.
The programme for example determined that each SS men should have four children, either in or out of wedlock.
Lebensborn homes took care of the children born out of wedlock and their mothers.
The programme was not very actively promoted, though, it says on the website of the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.
Instead, the Nazi population policies were focused on family and marriage.
The state encouraged marrying by offering loans and supported having children.
The Cross of Honor of the German Mother was given to women, who had borne at least four children.
Marriages between “Aryans” and “non-Aryans” were forbidden by law in Nazi Germany, it is stated on the museum website.
