S Group to start registering shopping information more closely
Soon the S Group will know what you eat, because today the business group declared that it will begin to collect even more precise information about its co-op members’ purchases.
When so far the information gathered has been of the total amount of a receipt, in the beginning of May the Group will hoard it also about the items purchased.
Here the S Group follows after Kesko, since information about items purchased with a K-Plussa card has been gathered to Kesko’s customer register already for a couple of years.
According to K-Plus Oy Managing Director Ismo Riitala, the feedback from the programme has been mainly positive.
Item-specific information is gathered with the consent of the customer, and it is used to marketing subject to permission.
The most effective channel is email.
Very few customers have forbidden the use of product information, Riitala says to Taloussanomat.
According to him, Kesko will not react to S Group’s registering change.
Kesko classifies its regular customers to ten different groups simply based on groceries alone.
The classification is updated monthly.
The regular customers are also classified according to the number of purchased items and the money used.
The information is used to target marketing to the customer.
Item-specific information is gathered only from K-Group’s own chains.
Partners, like for example Neste Oil, do not give away their information.
Lidl Finland do not have a customer loyalty programme, and currently they are not planning for one, either.
Suomen Lähikauppa has its own Ykkösbonus customer loyalty programme one can join in a Valintatalo, Siwa or Euromarket.
Currently we do not collect information on product level or on product group level, we stay at the level of the receipt’s total amount.
So we know where the shopping was done, on what day, and what was the total of the customer’s receipt.
We have not gone to K-Group’s or S Group’s level, says Business Manager Anu Ora.
According to her, there are plans about reforming the customer loyalty programme in the future, but Lähikauppa will tell about it later.
However, Ora does not promise that they would start registering item information.
An experiment at first
SOK’s co-op member and customer register has already thus far been relatively comprehensive.
The basic information includes personal data and address information, but also profession, education, mode of living, as well as children's year of birth, and previous personal data.
Also the people living in the same household and their roles have been registered.
Information about the purchase date, time, and place, the total amount of shopping and the method of payment has been saved from an S-Card purchase.
In addition, the S-Bonus partners’ information has been received from their cash systems.
From the beginning of May, product-level purchase information will be saved in Sokos and Emotion chains.
Instead for the present, S-market, Prisma, Kodin Terra, and ABC chains still register the information on a product group level.
The customers have already for quite some time now expressed wishes of a better targeted marketing, says Manager of SOK’s co-op member and partner operations Marjaana Saarikoski.
S Group says it will inform its customers about the change.
They can forbid the use of product-level information to marketing.
The information is stored at the cash registers anyway, whether you want it or not.
Those who want can check their saved information on the S Group website.
For example cashiers cannot access the information, Saarikoski points out.
