At Flow, megalomania is a virtue
The precise criteria of enjoyment and ambitious visions have established the status of Flow Festival as an internationally respected event starred by the top artists in the world.
Flow Festival begins on Friday in Helsinki.
The festival guests have typically expressed themselves with individual dressing.
One of the main stage artists this year is the punk legend Iggy Pop.
The Flow Festival event area is styled with for example artificial turf and art installations.
For us, it has never been enough just to have a main stage and a beer tent, says the Artistic Director of the event, Tuomas Kallio.
Flow Festival, organised in Suvilahti, Helsinki, this weekend, has grown from a small block festival to an event with tens of thousands visitors.
Behind the success, there is a simple question: What kind of an event would the organisers themselves want to attend?
Thinking this way is quite exceptional in event production.
Most of the time the goal is to reach the level of necessity and to act according to the authorities’ orders, says Artistic Director Tuomas Kallio.
A week before the event he knew, that Flow will sell out also this year.
The goal has been to increase the last year’s number of visitors, 70.000, by 5.000 people.
There will be a group of interesting domestic and foreign artists at the festival also this year.
The growth of the visitor number is a good thing, because the operations have to funded someway.
On the other hand, we don't want to grow too much, because at some point the masses would be like cattle that is herded in huge channels.
We don’t want that.
During 13 years, the ideology of a successful event has been magnified in a way that the area, partly decorated with artificial turf, hosts 130 performers, art installations, and a number of restaurant points and cocktail bars.
In addition to the main stage and the smaller stages, this year there will be gigs in a tent accommodating 15.000 people.
Kallio admits that the event could be implemented also in a simpler way.
I may be a bit megalomaniac, but at the same time, we have managed to retain the Flow spirit.
If you lose it, this is no longer our thing.
For Kallio, the greatest joy and reward for the work done is that nowadays even big visions are practically possible.
In the early years of the event, mid 00s, the operation was very dependent on the support of about 20.000 euros from the city of Helsinki.
Last year the turnover of the limited company that manages Flow was about six million euros.
With it, it’s possible to create “even crazy things”, like building that tent 73 meters wide.
The guests at Flow have typically expressed themselves with individual dressing.
In addition to a music event, one can also call this a community of trendy young adults.
However, the event has not purposely profiled itself as especially fashionable.
Above all, we want to stand out because of our content.
Still, also fads fit in to Flow’s set of values: curiosity and the desire to interact with the environment, says Kallio.
This year one of the main stage artists is a legend of punk, 69 years old Iggy Pop.
In his own genre, the man has a huge fan crowd, but he isn’t the most typical performer in a festival combining indie rock, pop music, rap, and soul.
According to Kallio Iggy was booked, since this is most likely the last time the artist is gigging in Finland.
We are interested in everything, history and future.
Not just what is played in commercial radio.
Iggy’s latest album was bloody good, and he has performed bloody well on his gigs in recent years.
