Voluptuous Modern Family star causes a stir again: the teenage star's shorts reveal almost everything
Ariel Winter, who became known as the good-natured Alex Dunphy of the comedy series Modern Family, causes a stir again by displaying her voluptuous curves.
Winter was photographed in Hollywood this week wearing hot pants that don’t leave much to the imagination.
The shorts revealed not only the actress’ legs, but also her behind.
18-Year-old Winter has lately attracted attention by changing her style and behaviour to considerably more daring.
The star has published pictures of her posing while wearing very little in the social media, and she has taken several tattoos.
The young woman has also been seen wearing extremely skimpy outfits.
Winter, who is on the threshold of adulthood, has lately also published several pictures of herself partying.
If the image isn’t visible, you can see it here.
Earlier this summer Fox News asked some experts, why Winter has changed her public image in such a radical way.
Back then, the founder and CEO of PowerwomenTV, Amy Palmer, suspected that Winter is experiencing a "typical Hollywood transformation” from a child star to an adult.
She has been on television for nearly her whole life, and she has grown up in the Kardashian era.
She has learnt that the more you show bare skin, the more publicity and attention you get in Hollywood, Palmer said to Fox news adding that this exactly same phenomenon has already been seen countless time before.
Winter began in Modern Family when she was only 11 years old.
The actor has annoyed some of her long-time fans with this change in her image.
It is not difficult to guess, where she will be in ten years, since the downhill is already this steep, one women stated on Winter's Instagram account.
Some of her fans instead defend the actress, saying that she shouldn’t care about the critique.
You look amazing!
It doesn’t matter what other people say.
You are an inspiration to many women, a young woman praises.
