Video: Puppy Heila is the newest dog reinforcement of the Finnish Customs - the puppy will be the first explosives dog
A black Labrador retriever puppy is energetically sniffing five similar boxes, arranged in a row on the ground at Helsinki airport.
In no time at all, it decidedly sit next to the box in the centre.
Customs inspector Lassi Suntio rewards his dog Heila by using its favourite toy to play with the dog.
From the box Heila sat next to, a can of cartridge cases that smell like gunpowder gas was revealed.
Gunpowder gas is the first scent we have been now practising with Heila, says Suntio, the owner of the puppy.
Security situation and e-commerce the main reasons
Heila is the Customs’ first dog specialised in searching for arms and explosives, and it will be placed to Helsinki airport next year.
If need be, work duties might take Heila and Suntio also to other points of entry and to harbour.
The airport will, however, be Heila’s main work place, since the international security situation has changed on account of the serious terrorist attacks in Europe.
The attacks in Paris and Brussels caused the customs to take measures, and after the attacks, control has been strengthened, says Supervision Director Mikko Grönberg from the Customs.
Another main reason for training an arms and explosives dog for the Customs, are the postal items that are carried via Helsinki airport.
With the grown online sales, there are up to about 40 million postal items carried via Helsinki airport every year, and these may include arms equipment and explosive materials ordered from abroad.
In recent years, the Customs has discovered about 300 findings related to guns, gun parts, ammunition and explosive materials and their basic materials from the Helsinki airport.
Heila will work across Helsinki airport.
It will examine registered luggage and postal items.
It will be a great advantage at harbours in the future, as it can search large crate areas and mark those areas that require a more thorough investigation, says Grönberg.
Based on how Heila will perform, the Customs decides whether they will train more arms and explosives dogs in the future.
Grönberg is hopeful about that.
A school at Kirkkonummi
Puppy Heila’s training is coordinated by the Customs Dog Training Centre, located at Kirkkonummi.
Suntio and Heila will also be trained by the Police and Finnish Defence Forces experts.
The Police have strong experience on dog training, and the Defence Forces on explosives.
The Customs decide together with other authorities what scents Heila is taught to recognise.
Heila will be further trained as is necessary, says Grönberg.
Heila’s colleagues at Helsinki Airport are the Customs’ six drug dogs and the money and drug dog Massi.
Labrador retriever Heila has been chosen from a litter of ten puppies.
When choosing a dog for airport, the selection criteria include activeness, hunting instinct, and calmness, because the dog will deal with guns, explosives, and streams of people.
Heila, who lives with Suntio, is a close fellow worker of the customs inspector, but also a family member.
You can’t go anywhere at home without Heila, laughs Suntio.
Subtle orders click with Heila at the first go.
The cameraman from Ilta-Sanomat loses his camera mic cover to the fast dog, but Heila gives the cover that looks like a soft toy back immediately after hearing the command “let go”.
Hard competition for utility dogs
Hella’s early training will be ready next year.
There still are placement tests ahead, the next one in October, when it will be assessed whether the training is adequate for the exacting work tasks.
If everything goes according to plans, Heila can be seen working at Helsinki Airport next year.
Unfortunately the passengers cannot pet the dog wearing a work west, reminds Suntio.
One utility dog’s expenses for the Customs are about 60,000-70,000 euros per year.
Their work age is about seven to eight years, possibly even ten, after which they retire to their owner’s care.
The work days can be long, from eight to ten hours, but the active work sections only last from ten minutes to a couple of hours.
There is hard competition at the Customs for the ownership of utility dogs.
About 20-30 Customs workers applied to be Hella's owner.
The lucky one was Suntio, who has not had a work dog before, but he has a long experience with dogs and Customs’ supervision tasks.
