MTK’s Hakkarainen on the forest gift deduction: Over 80 percent of the forest owners outside
The forest gift deduction is one of the tax changes in the next year’s budget proposal by the Ministry of Finance.
A tax deduction to the income tax law is proposed. The deduction would be granted on the basis of forest property succession gift tax.
In the proposal by the Ministry of Finance, this forest gift deduction has four goals: to promote generation changes in forest holdings, to make forest owners’ age structure younger, to increase the holding sizes, and to increase the wood supply.
The goal of the Ministry is to promote entrepreneurial forestry.
A forest owner would make the deduction from the pure income from forest capital.
Generally speaking, the idea of doing a tool such as this to promote forest properties’ generational change is good, commented the Forestry Director Juha Hakkarainen of the Central Union of Agricultural Producers and Forest Owners (MTK).
However, Hakkarainen did find points of criticism from the tax change proposal.
The forest gift deduction is proposed to be made from the pure capital income of the forest owner.
It is capital income from which all the other deductions have been deducted.
According to MTK and Hakkarainen, the effectiveness of the tax deduction would be greater, if the deduction could be made straight from the wood sales proceeds.
The starting point for the MoF proposal is that by making the deduction from the forestry's pure capital income, it is possible to prevent forestry capital income losses based on the deduction that then would be deducted elsewhere in taxation.
In this case a person would get a tax benefit even without selling wood.
The calculation model is unnecessarily complicated.
An average forest owner is not able to piece it together, says Hakkarainen.
In addition, he says, the model only affects a small part of forest owners.
The proposed limit of tax deduction that is tied to the forest’s profits is 40,000 euros.
Hakkarainen thinks this is too high.
According to him, as such it will eliminate 82 per cent of Finnish forest owners away from the reduction sphere.
This model would have an effect on about 10 per cent of forest owners, he says.
MoF sees the limit as supporting the goal of increasing holding sizes.
According to Hakkarainen, forest gift deduction has been talked about for decades.
The reason behind it is the aging of forest owners.
According to MTK, at the moment, the average age of forest owners is over 60 years, and about half of forest owners are pensioners.
