A tidal wave from the past - Kansan Uutiset
The sea churns fatefully, but the true tidal wave hits among Madrid’s crowds - the day of reckoning with the past can begin.
That is the core of the story in Pedro Almodóvar’s newest.
The previous film Almodóvar directed, I’m So Excited (2013), was a somewhat campy and rather racy satirical comedy, the one preceding that, The Skin I Live In (2011), one of the culminations of the Spanish virtuoso’s career.
As to its level, Julieta (2016) is placed somewhere in between those two works.
It is conventionally serene love, relationship and family drama, in the centre of which is a mother-daughter relationship.
The story is a simple one, and largely told in flashbacks.
Life seems to be going well for the middle-aged title character (Emma Suarez), but then all threatens to fall apart.
In the wake of a random encounter, a new partner (Dario Grandinetti) is astonished all the way to the final stages of the film.
In the form of a flashback and a long letter, Julieta recounts her life story to her grownup daughter.
She begins from the time before the daughter was born, from the moments she met the future father of the girl (Daniel Grao).
At the same time, Adraina Ugarte, who is familiar from the TV series The Time in Between (2013-2014), rises to the role of the other leading lady: Julieta as a young teacher.
Julieta’s aging has been realised in a way that can be considered as clumsy, but I myself would say that it is kind of funny and literally done in one fell swoop.
Julieta has long distance to the sparkling, including humour, that so often characterises Almodóvar’s films.
It is evenly acted, composed, containing good music here and there, and rather melancholic film that has ingredients for an elegy the way it is.
Instead the visual saturation that is typical for the Spanish director is still extant, and it exists in a way it slowly begins to stick out more as a pure technicality than a functional dramatic effect.
The characters in the film are tested by illnesses, deaths, or sudden losses for no particular reason, but the surface remains decorative.
This is true especially when it comes to costumes: in the case of the titular character the costumes change from one scene to another, and the same is true for the flamboyant earrings.
Almodóvar is particular in these things, but the main thing, the set-ups of each scene, doesn’t really improve by this.
As it is mechanically repeated, the impression is detached and slightly spiritless.
Almodóvar has written the script based on three short stories by Alice Munro, a Canadian who received the Nobel prize for literature in 2013.
The short stories have been published in the book Runaway: Stories.
Almodóvar has invested in the dialogue, and the result is a slightly monotonous literary literature cinematisation.
The ingredients for by far emotionally more robust a drama were there, so great are the things discussed in the film’s thematic material, especially gnawing guilt.
Directed and manuscript by: Pedro Almodóvar.
Based on three short stories by Alice Munro.
Starring: Emma Suarez, Adriana Ugarte, Rossy de Palma, Daniel Grao, Dario Grandinetti.
The film will be released on August 12.
