Donald Trump as an economic expert - Kansan Uutiset
Donald Trump’s America doesn’t need the rest of the world.
As much as a third of all the state’s tax revenue would be lost, if the change to corporate taxes that Donald Trump pushes is implemented.
The tax revenues would be reduced also with the tax concessions that benefit especially the richest ones.
Presenting his tax programme on Monday in Detroit, Trump described it as revolutionary.
Corporate tax would decrease from 35 per cent to 15 per cent.
A truly enormous sum would be left uncollected, 1000 billion dollars per year.
The highest income tax percentage is now 39,6, and 33 after the reduction Trump has proposed.
Inheritance tax would be completely waived.
Trump blamed the state for regulating the economy too much, and for forcing small companies into bankruptcy.
The hurriedly decided environmental standards must be remake, and energy regulations must be rescinded.
Barack Obama’s health care reform must be reconsidered.
“Experts instead of bureaucrats” should be appointed to the administration.
A “disastrous” trade policy is one of the biggest reasons to United States’ problems according to Trump.
Free trade agreements would be cancelled.
A penalty tax of 45 per cent would be slapped on Chinese imports, and 35 per cent on Mexican imports.
We offer a new future.
Americanism, not globalism, will be our credo, Trump declared.
Donald Trump’s America doesn’t need the rest of the world:
There will be American cars driving on the streets, American planes connecting cities, American ships to patrol on seas, American steel building new skyscrapers everywhere in the country.
Contrary to his customs, Trump faithfully read through the speech written by assistants, even despite it being interrupted 14 times by well organised protests.
Economists - also those near Republicans - see Trump's programme as something that will lead the United States to a deep, economic recession.
Hillary Clinton published her own programme early on Friday Finnish time.
