The government attempts a vote trick - Kansan Uutiset
There will be no new cuts, the ministers keep on saying, so that the Finns Party would not completely collapse.
Though there are plenty of cuts decided in spring that are made.
There will be no new cuts.
The already decided cuts of 4 billion are enough.
This is what the Prime Minister Juha Sipilä (Centre) and the Minister of Finance Petteri Orpo (Coalition) assure before the government budget session.
This holds true in the sense that there are no new cuts in the MoF’s proposal, since the social security cuts were decided already in the spending limits session of spring.
Child benefit, national pension, basic unemployment security, and nearly all the other benefits tied to national pension index are being cut 0.85 per cent.
The duration of earnings-related unemployment security will shorten from 500 days to 400 days.
The education cuts continue.
The municipal elections are haunting
Why are the ministers so eager to emphasise the very fact that there will be no new cuts on top of these?
Because next year is an election year.
The municipal elections are in April, and they, not the polls, are the most important thermometer of the electoral term.
It has been seen already before that the government parties’ diverging municipal election results ruin the government atmosphere for a long time.
However, the polls show that there is a beating waiting the government party Finns, even though its previous election result, 12.3 per cent, was modest compared to general election.
Four years ago the Finns Party got 752 new municipal councillors, most of whom will see the cost of working in a right-wing government realised next spring.
The lifeline of this government of about three equal-sized parties hinges on whether the Finns party has the nerve.
Now it hasn’t, but over half of the party’s voters were fed up with the government policies already during the first year.
The first signs of the party’s parliamentary group’s state of turbulence have surfaced.
‘There will be no new cuts’ rhetoric is used firstly to obscure the fact that next year there will be harsh cuts, and secondly to soften the blow that is coming to the Finns Party.
Major cuts in 2018?
In a year everything will most likely be different - if Sipilä’s government is still standing.
The government’s goal is to break the incurring of debts during this parliamentary term, but in Petteri Orpo’s budget proposal there is 5.9 billion euros more debt contracted next year than this year.
After the municipal elections, the government has two options.
The first is to put their hands up already halfway through the electoral term and to admit that the government is unable to follow their own program: the indebtedness is not broken or even slowed down.
The second is to hold on to their program.
That means even harder cuts on top of the previous ones in the 2017 government budget session.
The budget would be forced at least close to a balance during 2018, and then, in the spring, it would be just accepting whatever is coming in the general elections.
With these actions, the indebtedness will not be broken.
It is completely obvious that the current actions will not be enough to break the indebtedness, no matter how much Juha Sipilä attempts to whip up a positive atmosphere.
The graphs presented by the State Secretary Martti Hetemäki in the budgetary press conference prove it indisputably:
The world economy’s growth predictions have, again and again, turned out to be overly positive, so there will be no support from international economy.
Finnish national economy has not risen much since the crash in 2008, except temporarily during the stimulus policy in the beginning of the 2010s.
During this decade, unemployment has increased 35 per cent and is prolonged from 34 to 35 weeks on average.
Unemployment now costs 3 billion euros more annually than it did in 2008.
The graphs presented by Hetemäki show that the general government debt that crossed 60 per cent limit in 2014 will grow to 70 per cent halfway through next decade.
What is responsible?
In spring 2015, the debt recovery proposed by the Left Alliance was rejected, because it was considered to be irresponsible.
Next year the maintenance of unemployment costs about 6 billion euros, the sum that is practically fully covered by contracting new debt.
This is the Centre Party’s, the Coalition Party’s, and the Finns Party’s idea of what is responsible.
