Beach volley virtuoso Essi Hasu’s circle closes in Kouvola - Finnish Championship gold missing from the display cabinet
Essi Hasu is about finish her career as a beach volley player, at least temporarily, after the current season.
The Finnish Championships in beach volley are settled during the weekend in Kouvola’s Urheilupuisto.
In the course of three days, the medal games will be played in both adult and youth categories.
Six of the ranking’s best pairs from each category qualify for the championship tournament that is arranged by Kouvolan Lentopalloilijat and Suomen Lentopalloliitto.
Originally from Elimäen NMKY, Essi Hasu represents local colour in the tournament. She has been one of the top beach volley player in Finland for already several years.
Hasu, who currently lives in Helsinki, eagerly awaits for games in front of a familiar crowd.
I hope as many as possible can make it to the stands this weekend.
I’m sure the arena at the baseball stadium is going to be great.
I haven’t played in adult categories that often in Kouvola, so it is great to play in the finals in my own home area, says Hasu feeling sentimental.
It was the Kouvola region that ignited the spark for sports in Hasu, and gave a good start in a great hobby.
I have many memories from the childhood.
I started playing volleyball in Elimäen NMKY's E girls when I was nine.
The main thing I remember is the oversized game jersey, the knee pads rolling around the ankles, and the amazing cheers and choreographies after we scored, recalls Hasu.
In a small place, a sports club was a tight community where everyone knew each other.
The team spirit created an atmosphere, where it was nice to play in.
Everyone’s families were strongly involved in the activities - a team mate’s father was our couch, and my mother was a long-time president of the club.
For Essi Hasu, beach volley was a natural choice to counterbalance indoor volleyball already when she was a junior.
Beach volley has been played at Käyrälampi beach already in the 1990s.
Activity at the Käyski has always been active.
I went there myself, too, to see the junior's Finnish Championships competitions thinking that some day I would be playing there myself.
Now this dream comes true, when this weekend Hasu is playing in the FC finals together with Anniina Parkkinen from Pieksämäki.
The duo, ranked second in the tournament after Riikka Lehtonen and Taru Lahti, has a clear goal.
Our realistic goal is a medal.
We still don’t have an FC gold in the display cabinet, Hasu adds mysteriously.
The weekend’s performance in Kouvola might be the last one for Hasu in front of a familiar crowd.
In the beginning of September, there will be new challenges waiting with her civilian work.
Yes, my international career will be over after Kisakallio tournament.
Anyway I plan to hang my barefoot shoes up at least temporarily, plans Hasu.
