The Germans or Russians, who is worse?
the German society has gone through a period of profound self-reflection, but the Russian society did not.
Both Eurasian nations produced dictators and regimes in the 20th century which were inhuman, brutal and horrific.
From 1917 to 1989, the Russian Bolsheviks contributed to the 94 millions of victims of communism, as recorded in the Black Book Of Communism, whether this was related to everyday individual repressions, targeted famine, incompetent warfare or inhuman experiments.
The Nazis wiped out in an inhuman way about 6 million Jews and in total the total number of victims of the Second World War is estimated at 60 million.
Both Germans and the Soviets carried out atrocities in the occupied or abandoned territories.
In Germany or the USSR, it was not only a few individuals who were guilty of these atrocities. Large sways of population took part in these crimes, whether actively or passively as a result of cowardice or putting their heads in the sand.
This was not only exclusive to these two nations, we Czechs are also guilty.
In Germany, the process of denazification started in the immediate aftermath of the war, followed by the Nuremberg Tribunal.
The most important thing, however, came later.
Dad, grandpa, how could you take part in such atrocities?
How could you!
It brought real reflection and healing to the society.
Until recently, the German elites were mainly concerned with the prosperity of the country, elimination of poverty and welfare of the country's citizens.
They may have other (often naively-idealistic) goals, but they cannot be accused of trying to annex Alsace-Lorraine or launching military attacks against another country - motivated by revenge.
There was no period of reflection in Russia after they lost the cold war.
The window of opportunity to make any positive changes has definitely closed at the turn of the millennium when the former KGB (sic!) officer Vladimir Putin came to power.
Criminal past is often celebrated in Russia
The main policy of Putin's Russia is revenge, conquest of the lost territories and the humiliation of the West.
Health, prosperity and the future of the nation is not important in today's Russia.
Beat your own and others will be afraid.
I still believe that this only the product of decades of despotic regimes, that the Russians are not genetically or culturally inferior-destined to Asian-style (self) tyranny.
