Prison?
I would prefer if they had to drive people for free, says the taxi mafia hunter Rubeš in connection with the ground-breaking prosecution.
According to ČT, the defendants are six taxi drivers and a former official of the municipal government in Prague.
You've made a number of reports in which you uncovered the fraudulent practices of those who are in the group which is now being prosecuted.
You had to face several unpleasant skirmishes with those you have exposed.
To what extent does this news of members of this organised gang being prosecuted represent a breakthrough for you?
I did expect that this would go to court at some stage.
I am mainly curious about the verdict,
but I do not think that they should be in jail.
That is useless.
They should, in the first place, repay all the stolen money,
by having to drive people for free.
This is a somewhat strange solution.
Does it mean that you do not consider the likely punishment handed down by the court to be sufficiently effective?
I consider it sufficient that some of them are now so scared that they left the profession.
One of them is now working as a waiter, another is delivering pizza and one of them has given up completely.
The defendants can theoretically get two to eight years in prison.
Do you think this is an adequate tariff?
I have a problem with custodial sentences in general.
I consider them to be an ineffective form of punishment.
It is nonsense to put somebody behind bars in a case like this.
Such people should be forced to give back to society what they have taken away.
They have been destroying our country's reputation by brazenly stealing from people for twenty-five years.
So now they should restore the country's reputation by having to drive people for free.
I cannot think of a better form of punishment.
It would work like a community service.
As others are required to collect garbage, they would get a car to drive people around Prague for free.
No, I think that in the end, they will get a suspended sentence and they will not care.
They will find another way how to defraud others.
He studied at the Film Academy of Miroslav Ondříček in Písek and subsequently, at Tomáš Baťa University in Zlín.
Mr Rubeš is one of the people, who started creating videos directly for the web in the Czech Republic and the person behind many viral videos.
He works as a journalist for the online broadcaster Stream.cz, where he is involved in a number of shows. He is currently working on the Prague Guide, which is intended primarily for foreign audiences.
This is a series of short reports, in which Rubeš advises foreign visitors which services they should be using and what they should avoid.
He has previously filmed shows with titles "Jak na to" [What to do], "Město podvodů?" [City of fraud?], "Život v luxusu" [Life in luxury], "A dost!" [Enough!] and "Praha vs. Prachy" [Prague vs money]. VUTIUM a Prometheus, Brno a Praha 2001. Fast cash
In the indictment, they are referred to as an organised group.
The police followed them for several months.
Can this group of fraudulent taxi drivers be described as a mafia-style group?
They seem to be "nice" mobsters compared to those from the Godfather.
This is more about mobsters-juniors, but they are definitely organised.
If nothing else they are watching the taxi ranks for each other.
They have Prague divided into different zones.
I have observed, for example, that those at the main railway station do not like those in Pařížská, and those in Pařížská, in turn, do not have cordial relations with drivers at Karlovy Lázně (disco club)
They all are watching their taxi ranks and each group is organised in some way.
It is probably a complex network,
but there are altogether only seven defendants - six taxi drivers and one official from the municipal government who is accused of warning the drivers ahead of controls.
As you have said, this undesirable element has not disappeared from the streets.
What percentage of Prague taxi drivers do you consider to be fraudulent?
While it is only a very small percentage,
the worst of them are still roaming the streets.
I am talking about Aleš Ryjáček, for example.
This is a man who is really dangerous - he carries an expandable baton in his car, and every Friday and Saturday, he is at the taxi rank near Charles Bridge and drives people around the city.
When I was in his taxi the last time, he wanted me to pay him three hundred Czech crowns for three kilometres.
The police has not detained him for some reason.
They only picked a few people from that large group.
The situation is very similar in other locations in Prague.
The indictment of seven people will hardly eradicate a well-known Prague vice, which appears to be much bigger.
On the other hand, I would not say that this was a completely futile exercise.
It will help, but it will not eradicate all the evil.
Do the taxi drivers who prey on foreign tourists still frequent the same locations which you have showed in your reports, i.e. near the Charles Bridge or Pařížská?
Yes.
They continue breaking the laws and regulations from these very locations day in and day out.
This is being ignored by the Metropolitan Police and the Prague Magistrate.
This can no longer be dismissed just as "Absurdistan," this is utter indifference.
The business of the Prague taxi drivers in numbers
Still, some of them, even if it is only a small minority, will end up in court.
This is a breakthrough.
I have to ask you whether you now feel vindicated?
Vindication was not my objective. My goal has always been to make the centre of Prague a better place.
Even if I felt that we have achieved something in this regard, I will continue.
You have to keep pushing.
Even if there is only one last thief remaining, we should continue to make our best effort to catch and remove him.
You cannot be happy with that.
In reality, however, there are many more out there.
Are you still trying to confront them directly in their taxis?
I sometimes take test rides, and I have to say that the situation is still bad.
Just last week I caught a taxi driver, from the same group, and he looked surprised to see me again.
He charged me 560 Czech crowns for three kilometres, and claimed the amount was 56 crowns (he used the trick with the decimal point).
It had a receipt, so I called the police and this taxi driver was delightfully, cheeky when he kept asking the police officers when he would be paid those 56 crowns.
A similar case.
The taxi driver put a sticker over the decimal on the clock to lift 357 crowns from tourists.
Is it safe to say that these fraudsters have not stopped their activities even after you have shown the faces of those who charged ridiculous amounts for a short ride?
They have an incredible cheek.
What happened to the taxi driver who demanded his 56 crowns?
The police sent him away, claiming they cannot discuss the matter any further there because he issued a receipt.
I think that this will be also an issue in court (proceedings against six taxi drivers and one former official).
On the one side, there will be a taxi driver with his receipts and on the other, the police.
In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, the Magistrate is not allowed to use secret recordings from the taxi as evidence in court.
When I filmed the series about their scams, the taxi drivers themselves told me about this precedent.
Nevertheless, I always only wanted to use the footage in the reports.
Are you worried that this could effectively result in them walking free?
I hope that the judges will understand that no taxi driver can make a living charging six or ten crowns per kilometre.
You spoke about the trick with the decimal point, which the fraudsters use to scam foreign customers.
Is this still happening or are they worried to use this trick after you have reported on it?
I think that by broadcasting the report we have made this trick even more popular.
I was sitting in a taxi recently, and the taxi driver was bragging that he was the only honest taxi driver.
But then I noticed that there was a black tape at the side of the taximeter clock.
When I asked him what it was, he replied:
If fines did not quite work as a deterrent, will a trial of their colleagues do the trick?
Is there something at all that could deter them from scamming people?
You said that you believed that they would always find a way how to cheat.
I do not think that there are any truly effective deterrents.
However, they could be pushed out from the taxi ranks,
either by honest taxi drivers, who should really fight more to squeeze them out.
It is my experience that the fair taxi drivers are thankfully in the majority.
Do they want to push back against those who are damaging the reputation of their services?
There is a will, but they lack the skills.
They do not quite know how to handle the situation, and they find it difficult to formulate in more certain terms what they want.
When they staged the demonstration (because of blanket restrictions proposed by the office of the Mayor of Prague Adriana Krnáčová), they did not come across as if they knew exactly what they wanted.
On the one hand, they claimed that their protest was not against Uber, that they only want the same conditions as Uber does, on the other they said they wanted more than Uber.
The result was that they completely stopped the flow of traffic in Prague, which served as the best possible advertisement for Uber.
How do you rate overall the approach of the Prague Magistrate to the issue of fare overcharging?
It is obvious, that the criminal police had to get involved to handle the matter.
The Magistrate did not have clout to deal with the problem.
They had a mole there who was passing on information, which means that their taxi department's efforts were futile for several years.
I hope that they will ask the official to pay for all the checks that came to nothing because of his activities, so that he realises what he has done.
I think that this is the worst thing.
I was even with him on one of these test rides as I discovered when I checked the schedule afterwards.
It has been several months since you have released the final episodes of your show.
What was the response?
I mainly heard from foreign viewers, who were our primary focus.
Whenever my friends are over from abroad, I play them the videos.
When we then go for a walk, they are surprised to find that the people from the footage are still there at Staroměstské náměstí -
especially those infamous Prague celebrities.
Seriously,
I would build a fence around them like in a museum.
Museum of communism right here on the street.
My last question is clear.
Do you take a taxi when you need it?
Yes I do.
I use taxis where I can pay by card rather than cash.
I use services such as Uber or Liftago, where the drivers have no chance to cheat
There are also many taxi companies which are fair.
I have only hailed a cab on a street once since then.
Once I got into the taxi, the driver said:
Bém disguised as an Italian tourist.
The fraudulent practices of taxi drivers were an issue already back in 2005.
The former Mayor, Pavel Bém, took a test ride disguised as an Italian tourist, and the driver immediately overcharged him by two hundred Czech crowns.
The journalist Rubeš had a worse experience.
The taxi driver charged him 820 Czech crowns for a journey from Staroměstské to Václavské náměstí, which roughly translates to 195 crowns per kilometre as the documentary makers discovered.
The Prague Magistrate has set the maximum price at 28 crowns per kilometre.
The footage also reveals other surprising amounts being charged: for example a two kilometre ride from Pařížská to Truhlářská tourist costing a tourist 400 crowns.
The taxi drivers hailed from the taxi rank near Karluv Most were also ripping off customers.
They charge up to 600 crowns for a 2.5 kilometre ride to Anděl.
