Marble is mainly cleaned with clean water, avoiding chemicals as much as possible and the longer the better.
It is fairly easy to clean even though from time to time you need a scalpel to remove the dirt from the creases.
It is not easy and it is not fast, said the restorer Vanesa Trostová from Oldřichov v Hájích.
What she does is very impressive: the tomb is enclosed in scaffolding, which she has to keep climbing up and down.
"A restorer has to be diligent, patient and not too demanding with respect to the working conditions," she said.
This is by far not her first restoration work in the Frýdlant region.
She was behind the restoration of the stone elements of the façade in the rear wing of the Frýdlant Town Hall, the statue of St. Mary Magdalene in , Zátiší, the statue of St. John of Nepomuk in Frýdlant, Pieta in Okružní ulice in Frýdlant, Marian Column in Frýdlant or Atlanta in Nové Město pod Smrkem.
The restoration work on the gravestone of Melchior of Redern, his wife Catherine and their son Christoph began already in 2011.
We are currently removing deposits of dirt and crusts from the surface of the stone elements, and securing loose stone parts against falling and movement; they may be anchored to the wall or to one another.
We are also going to treat and preserve the surface.
The tomb will once again have gold inscriptions.
"Next, the inscriptions on marble slabs will be gilded with pure gold leaf," said Věra Sobotová, the national heritage official from the Frýdlant Magistrate.
We do not have any records of the tomb ever being repaired.
A closer look has revealed interesting holes, drilled into the marble columns.
There are hundreds of years old, and they are remnants of the gravestone decoration.
It was richly decorated, but unfortunately after the raid by the Swedes during the Thirty Years' War, it all disappeared.
They literally stripped it bare, said Ms Sobotová.
The restorers feel quite at home in the Church of the Holy Cross.
After the flood in 2010, it was necessary to put the tombstones, which were submerged in order, we had to restore the baptismal font, the wall paintings inside the tomb and the tomb itself now.
"We would also like to restore the stained glass in the future," said Ms Sobotová.
The church is otherwise in a very good condition as we invest every year in its repairs and maintenance.
The restoration work on the Redern family tomb will cost in total 128 thousand Czech crowns.
This will be covered by grants as the city will not invest its own funds in this phase of the restoration work.
One hundred thousand crowns will come from the regional round of the competition "Historic city of 2015", the balance of 28 thousand crowns will be contributed by the Ministry of Culture, said the Mayor of Frýdlant Dan Ramzer.
It was the decision of the Municipal Council to release the winnings to restore the tomb.
