Neither Kvitová nor the double act of Strýcová and Šafářová will be playing in the finals.
None of Friday's matches have so far been successfully converted into a place in the final.
First to lose was Petra Kvitová, who was beaten by the Puerto Rican surprise Monica Puig in three sets 4:4, 6:1 and 3:6.
Kvitová was shortly followed by the Czech double players Strýcová and Šafářová.
The pair, who defeated the Williams sisters, was close to winning the first set, but then missed two set balls and the Russians eventually won the set in a tiebreaker.
They then proceeded to lose the second set 4:6.
Czech rowing recorded some success during the morning programme in Rio: Ondřej Synek won his semifinal in single sculls by beating Chroatia's Damir Martin almost by a second despite easing a bit at the end of the race.
Today was a good day, the conditions were great, the wind had calmed down.
I tried to conserve my power as much as possible, Synek said.
In contrast, his opponents had to fight,
so this may make things easier tomorrow.
I'm not saying that it will be easy, but things are looking good, said the rower from Dukla Prague.
Mirka Topinková-Knapková did not follow in Synek's footsteps.
The thirty-five-year-old rower came in fourth in her semifinal and on Saturday, she will start in the B finals, where she will fight for seventh to twelfth place.
She will not be able to defend her gold from London.
This is the first time I failed to advance to the final at the Olympic Games.
It is disappointing, but it was a quality race and I gave it my all.
Simply put, the competition was better, said Topinková Knapková.
She fought until the end believing that she will reach the elite six in her fourth consecutive games.
She only gave up shortly before the finish line.
I knew that the race was wide open, anyone could have advanced to the final.
I was surprised by the Chinese rower and her strong finish.
I thought that I would be able to beat the Austrian to progress to the final.
Unfortunately, she delivered a performance of her lifetime, said the 2011 world champion.
The young shooter Filip Nepejchal was far outside the finals as he failed to qualify for the second time, this time in small-bore rifle prone
event in which he finished 33rd.
The Russian team performed best in the qualification.
Sergei Kamensky advanced from the first place having scored 629 points and Kirill Grigoryan from the second with 628.9 points.
In comparison, Nepejchal only scored 620.5 points.
The first track and field athletes have started their campaigns, among them the Czech heptathletes Kateřina Cachová and Eliška Klučinová.
After the second discipline, Cachová is currently in the eleventh place, and the Czech record holder, Eliška Klučinová in the twenty-second.
Britain's Katarina Johnson-Thompson, who cleared 1.98 cm in the high jump, and Belgium's Nafissatou Thiam are currently in the lead.
Both have produced historically best results in high jump in the heptathlon.
They both tried to clear 201cm but failed.
