Who benefits from increasing tensions over Crimea?
The Ukrainian army.
In the last days and hours, the situation on the Ukrainian-Russian border near Crimea has deteriorated.
Who benefits from the growing tensions?
After a long period of relative calm the relations between Ukraine and Russia have dropped to a new low.
The pretext for the Ukrainian side was the Crimean peninsula, which has been annexed by Russia more than two years ago, and it is now part of its territory.
Contradicting reports are coming from the two opposing sides, which we cannot independently verify, and therefore, we should ask ourselves the old question Cui bono?
According to reports from Moscow, the Ukrainian side launched terrorist attacks on Crimea, which, naturally, the Ukrainian side denies and in turn accuses the Kremlin of provocation.
The Ukrainian side responded to the information about the arrest of the members of the Ukrainian special forces on the territory of Russia by claiming - as they did in the Savchenko case - that they must have been abducted.
If we accepted the Ukrainian version of events, in what way would Russia benefit from a further escalation in the situation surrounding Crimea?
The simple answer is: they would not.
The escalation of tensions around Crimea can only harm Russia, mainly from the West in the form of even tougher sanctions and strengthening of the anti-Russian campaign.
Ukraine disappeared from the spotlight last year, as the focus shifted mainly towards the refugee crisis.
The Ukrainian leadership has lost all credit, as the approval rating of President Poroshenko hovers around 15%.
Ukraine's economy would have gone bankrupt a long ago if it were not for the generous funding from the EU and the IMF.
In this situation, the Ukrainian regime desperately needs to attract attention to its country to justify requests for further financial assistance in an attempt to improve their reputation with Ukrainian voters.
President Poroshenko and other members of the executive branch want to be seen again as strong men who are not afraid to stand up to Russia.
We can only hope that all those who are trying to unleash an open conflict between Ukraine and Russia eventually realise that they are responsible not only for the lives of soldiers but also civilians on both sides and stop any hostilities in time.
