Spain's opportunity to reduce budget deficit compromised by failure to set up new government.
A month ago, on July 12, the European Commission (EC) published an assessment that Spain and Portugal have not managed to implement a sufficient amount of measures to reduce their budget deficit to 3% of gross domestic product (GDP) as per the eurozone rules.
According to some calculations, despite the implemented austerity measures Portugal's budget deficit stood at 4.4% of GDP and at 5.1% in Spain at the end of last year.
The European Commission nevertheless decided not to impose economic sanctions on both countries and instead only defined fiscal goals for the nearest period.
One of the reasons why the EC did not impose sanctions on the two countries is the growing euroscepticism in many EU countries.
Additional sanctions would only add to such negative moods.
Nevertheless, the critics have pointed out that the EC has been inconsistent in its decisions, because it had agreed on uniform rules and then turned out unable to apply them.
For instance, Jens Weidmann, president of the German Bundesbank, has indicated that Europe starts losing its self-reliance by creating a public impression that European Union rules are merely recommendations.
Now the EC has proposed, and all member states have approved, an extension of the term given for tidying up the budget issues by the end of the year for Portugal and by 2018 for Spain.
The European Commission promises to check on the progress in both countries, while at the same time indicating that Spain and Portugal must be ready to for additional austerity measures, should the situation call for it.
Preliminary forecasts say that Portugal could manage achieving the stated goal within the given time-frame and its budget deficit might decrease to 2.5% of GDP already this year.
It means that the country's government must go on with austerity measures related to the Stability Program in the amount of 0.25% of GDP.
These measures should be included in this year's budget and additional attention must be paid to the oversight of procurement of goods and services.
In Spain's case, the situation is more complicated.
Its budget deficit must be reduced down to 4.6% this year, to 3.1% next year and to 2.2% of GDP in 2018.
Additionally, during the next two years consolidation measures must be equal to 0.5% of GDP.
The goal is especially difficult to achieve due to the fact that Spanish political parties have failed to agree on forming a new government for eight consecutive months, and the likelihood that Spain might be forced to organize early Parliament election for the third time in one year has increased.
Public opinion surveys show that a third election would not essentially change the national political pattern.
The People's Party, headed by the present Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy, is still the most popular one and it would again win up to 33% of votes in an election.
Socialists are the only ones to have slightly increased their ratings while the popularity of parties speaking up against the austerity measures, such as Podemos ("Together we can") and Ciudadanos ("Citizens"), have decreased a little.
The People's Party wants to involve socialists and Ciudadanos in the government already this month, otherwise it will not be able to approve and to submit to the European Commission the draft budget of 2017 by mid October.
The faction representative of the People's Party, Rafael Hernando, announced that Spain would become a laughingstock for the entire Europe if the country fails to set up the government and instead the third election takes place.
