Athletes' dreams crushed in Rio sand.
Thursday saw the entrance of judo fighter Jevgenijs Borodavko.
He indeed had a more prize-winning opponent, but the ambitious can sometimes surprise.
He did not, however.
A task for Arturs Nikiforenko was even more complicated, because he had less experience and a very respectable opponent.
The outcome was similar, even though he managed to remain on the mat for one and a half minute longer than Borodavko did.
Unfortunately, the Latvian judo fighters mainly seem to lack ambition.
Since Gunars Kirsons and his financial supporter Vladimirs Sestakovs stepped aside from the management and Aleksandrs Jackevics left Latvia, the Golden Score event is not organized anymore, and thus the development of judo is slowly deteriorating.
No successors are seen for Jackevics, who consults judo fighters from Kazakhstan, and for Vsevolods Zelonijs.
But if one does not help the athletes grow, the outcome will be poor.
And it is the federation's prerogative.
Therefore the Judo Federation's president's promise to win medals in Rio came as if from another galaxy in the Morning Panorama news.
Dreams are far from reality.
In the evening we were impatiently and anxiously looking forward to the beach volleyball match of Samoilovs/Smedins against Evandro/Pedro Solberg.
The intrigue was just like in a "death" group, because the Olympics is over for those who lose.
The Latvian team had a small reserve: they could lose but by not more than 4 points in two sets.
A protracted previous game just added to their stress.
Nobody wanted to "die" - this feeling could be sensed over the windy court for the entire match.
The gusty wind created additional complexity for the players.
In the beginning it seemed that our players, being more versatile, would benefit from it.
But they did not.
Thus it was rather easy to defeat the Latvian pair.
Just serve toward Samoilovs and wait for him to break.
He started to break in the game against Canada but broke against Cuba at the end of the 1st set and the beginning of 3rd set, because it was a huge physical challenge.
Smedins could go fishing meanwhile, because he had little to do, but when he did, he did it very well.
Samoilovs and Smedins could win against the Brazilians in two sets, because they took a lead in the first one with 16-15, but remained at 16 points thus exhausting the limit of lost points.
They could also lose with 0-2, because in the 2nd set they had a deficit of -4, however they managed to win, also thanks to the wind.
The 3rd set went under Evandro's serves.
One could observe a chain pattern: unconvincing return of a serve, the second pass sometimes flies too close to the net and Samoilovs having few options for an efficient attack.
If an unseen Samoilovs was in the court during the game against Cubans, now he returned to playing more efficiently and it would be incorrect to blame only Aleksandrs for the loss.
Also Kreilis made a mistake and it was symbolic that he was the one to send the last ball into the block.
The loss was by the team.
This time luck had also turned away: in the third set alone, two attacks by Evandro almost went outside the court, but the ball did hit the line.
Two aces landed next to the line.
In this contestable situation, a video playback gave the victory to the opponents.
If Evandro was struggling with serves in the first two games, he became very efficient in the game against our players.
Eventually it resulted in a loss, shown on the scoreboard.
The causes of this failure could now be analyzed with some detachment.
Perhaps they should have, as many did, stayed near the stadium and not with the rest of the delegation in the Olympic Village.
Two and a half hours were lost commuting.
Perhaps some confidence was given to them by a series of seven semifinals.
Or perhaps, they should not have played in Klagenfurt and instead arrive here earlier and adapt to the situation.
Perhaps there was a mistake in finding their best athletic shape.
For the time being, there are more questions than answers.
The games are over for our beach volleyball players.
And so is the dream about winning medals.
What's next?
There remain a few World Cup tournaments and also the Jurmala "Masters".
Smedins and Samoilovs have never been friends outside the sport and will probably not become such, because their personalities are just too different.
But it is also not necessary .
When a dream about Olympic medals dies, one could start thinking of splitting up, because the fault will be searched for not only in oneself but also in the teammate.
It is not difficult to split up, but it is much harder to find an appropriate teammate in Latvia.
Both athletes have brothers who play beach volleyball, but Janis and Toms have tried and also split up, while Mihails Samoilovs is still too fresh to start aiming for global top positions.
He could try it with Haralds Regza, Aleksandrs Solovejs, Edgars Tocs, or reunite with Martins Plavins, but that combination will be in no way better than the current one, as seen several times during the World Cup.
The sand of Copacabana was not their friend this time.
And that's about it.
Of course, one must also take into consideration that beach volleyball is gaining popularity and new pairs join and only a few players are below two meters in height.
It does not automatically guarantee success, but is an essential argument when struggling to win.
Our athletes cannot grow taller.
Both athletes and journalists can stay in accommodations offered by the games' organizers or rely on their personal choice.
US men's basketball team lives on a cruise ship, and some tennis players do not stay at the Olympic Village.
Also some beach volleyball players have found a hotel in Copacabana.
This time the modest accommodation offered to journalists was overpriced.
Therefore we chose to rent an apartment.
It is risky, because sometimes it can be inconvenient in terms of logistics.
This time the risk paid off.
Together with Vladimirs we rented an apartment on the border of Copacabana and Ipanema.
The beach was 200 meters away and the beach volleyball arena in 30 minutes' walk.
The area was rather safe because the favelas were far away, yet one should be careful here as well.
"Vladimirs" is not the person one might think about globally; in fact, we mean the most experienced sports journalist in the Russian-language media in Latvia, Vladimirs Ivanovs.
P.S. It looks like another dream about medals has died on Friday morning.
Laura Ikauniece-Admidina fell behind her previous personal records in 100-meter hurdles and high jump.
Yet, there are still five other disciplines.
