Legendary rock band "Livi" 40th anniversary anticipated with exhibition.
The exhibition will feature various items characterizing "Livi": a timeline with photos reflects the band's activities from its beginnings until 2010 when the band officially announced the end of its career.
Band members' costumes, instruments, awards and taped live performances as well as other items yet unseen by a wider public yet telling the story of "Livi" will also be on display.
The exhibition has received some items from the Liepaja Museum collection.
The visual design of the exhibition was created in cooperation with the fashion artist and painter Elita Patmalniece.
Also other musicians who had this or another kind of connection with "Livi" as well as their families came up and shared both items and memories.
The story of "Livi" began in 1972 when Juris Pavitols founded a band of popular music.
The band's first line-up participated in the "Liepajas dzintars" festival in 1972 and 1974 as well as performance review concerts around Latvia.
Year 1976 marked a decisive turn when Juris Pavitols met Eriks Kigelis: the band found a base at the Metal Worker's Culture Hall and invited Ingrida Gutmane, Andris Kruzins and Janis Grodums to join.
Later the band's line-up changed many times.
Some musicians joined, others left and some returned again.
The major, perhaps most enduring motif was the desire to show that the Latvian rock music can live on.
"There was a lot to see: jeans, long hair and beards; these guys were different from the conventional stereotype of a crooner on stage," music journalist Klass Vavere comments about the band.
Such popular musicians as Igo, Vilnis Krievins, Modris Sterns, Valdis Starks, Laims Racenajs, Talis Pusbarnieks, Ainars Virga, Aivars Brize, Guntars Mucenieks, Dainis Virga, Tomass Kleins and many more can be mentioned among the participants of the band.
Entrance to the exhibition is free of charge.
It runs from August 19 until October 30.
On August 27, the 40th anniversary of "Livi" will be marked with "LIVIfest 2" at the Liepaja concert garden "Put, vejini".
