Reshuffle among Russian elite continues: Putin's executive office appoints new chief of staff
Did he step down voluntarily?
Vladimir Putin told Russian media that Sergey Ivanov wanted to leave his position but will remain as the President's special representative in nature preservation, environmental and transportation matters.
When informing about the changes, Putin spoke approvingly of Ivanov in front of cameras: "Dear Sergey Borisovich, I have worked together with you for many years and we are doing it successfully."
I am satisfied with the way you carry out your job.
I remember well our agreement to employ you in this position at the Presidential Executive Office for no more than four years.
Therefore I understand your wish to change the things you work on.
And I hope you will make the most of your skills and experience in the new position.
However, it has been pointed out that being in charge of the Presidential Executive Office is a very powerful position and that through it Ivanov has become one of the most influential persons in the entire country.
In the context of the Russian State Duma elections approaching next month, there have been rumors that this change is related to a power struggle among the country's political elite.
Ivanov has even been mentioned as a prospective successor of Putin as the president, which casts doubt on the assertion that Ivanov would willingly become the President's representative in environmental and transport matters.
According to information available to Lsm.lv, Ivanov is a Colonel General of the KGB and the Federal Security Service.
Ivanov is a close and long-term ally of the Russian President Vladimir Putin.
He started his career in secret services in 1975, where he met Putin.
Later, when Putin became the head of the Federal Security Service, Ivanov was assigned as his deputy.
At the end of the Russian President Boris Yeltsin's term in office, Ivanov was appointed as the Secretary of Russian Security Council.
In year 2000, when Putin came to power, an "Information Security Doctrine" developed by Ivanov and actually reviving government-run censorship in Russia was made official.
In 2001, Sergey Ivanov became the Minister for Defense of Russia and, in 2005, deputy of Prime Minister Mikhail Fradkov, also becoming responsible for the development of Russian defense industry's companies and arms export.
After leaving the current position, Ivanov will retain a job at Russia's National Security Council and work together with Vaino, the new head of the Presidential Executive Office.
Vaino comes from a family of Soviet party elite.
Ivanov himself allegedly encouraged Vaino to pursue the leading position at the Presidential Executive Office.
Anton Eduardovich and I have known each other for a long time.
In fact, it goes back to the times when we worked under your leadership in government.
For the last five years, we keep in touch with each other on an almost daily basis.
"Therefore I am sure that in terms of all professional and individual characteristics he is ready for this job'', Ivanov said.
Vaino comes from a family that was part of the Soviet party elite.
His granddad Karl had high-ranking positions in the Communist Party of the Soviet Estonia, serving as its First Secretary for ten years up until 1988.
The online media outlet Meduza, using a book "Estonian Self-determination and Independence" as it source, has reported that in late 1980s Karl Vaino had asked Moscow to authorize violent oppressive actions against participants of political rallies.
Somehow the authorization wasn't granted and it wasn't long before he lost his position.
Shortly afterwards Vaino moved to Moscow.
Anton Vaino graduated from the Moscow State Institute of International Relations and speaks Japanese.
However, he left the diplomatic career to work in the Presidential Protocol Administration.
As reported, during recent weeks Russia has been rocked by dismissal of several high-ranking officials and even arrests, including the replacement of several district governors and federal representatives.
According to political scientists, Vladimir Putin is reorganizing the elite circles before the upcoming elections of 2018.
Of note is that persons from military, security and law enforcement authorities are increasingly appointed to nationally leading positions.
