Cleanness of beaches around the Gulf of Riga is in critical condition.
After five years of inspecting beaches, activists have concluded that, unfortunately, the amount of rubbish gradually increases year by year and beach visitors themselves are to blame in the first place.
The most polluted swimming areas are located in Riga.
The Riga City Council explains that the beaches are being cleaned on a daily basis but it is rather difficult to reign in littering visitors.
Besides, garbage left on the ground can be washed into the water during heavy rain thus largely damaging its quality.
Except Liepaja's beach and several places in Kurzeme, cleanness of beaches elsewhere in Latvia is in a similar critical condition.
This conclusion was spread by the volunteers of a campaign called "My Sea".
The activists, after walking along the Riga Gulf for the fifth year already, have realized that the amount of garbage discarded by visitors per hundred meters has increased.
Unfortunately, this year the condition is evaluated as critical.
"We see that this is going to be a year when the amount of garbage might exceed 200 units per 100 meters," says a representative of the expedition "My Sea", Janis Ulme.
When the Latvian Radio called him, he was on the Tuja beach where the volunteers continue walking along the Riga Gulf coastline.
This year, even fluorescent light-bulbs were found among the household waste items and picnic remains littering the beach sand.
Ulme, who is a participant and organizer of the walk, tells that many people are to blame for the pollution.
"The main source of pollution is beach visitors, because more than a half of the total garbage amount is plastic items and various other rubbish: plastic bags in degradation stage and they cannot be identified anymore, as well as cigarette butts, bottles, caps, etc.," Ulme explained.
The swimming areas of Riga are also on the list of the dirtiest beaches.
For example, in Daugavgriva we gathered almost 800 units per hundred meters on average and it is way more than acceptable.
The organizers of the campaign explained that almost on every step one can see cigarette butts and that warning or prohibition signs are not placed everywhere.
"The average numbers in all three swimming areas of Riga (Daugavgriva, Vakarbulli and Vecaki) are unfortunately huge and far from the desirable, or the goal to which Latvia ought to strive, in order to reduce the garbage to 135 units by 2020," the environmental activist concludes.
The Riga swimming areas are cleaned on a daily basis and even two times per day in the hottest summer periods, City Council's representative Ugis Vidauskis explained.
It is, however, rather difficult to fight against untidy visitors.
Again, we face an issue of whether these persons are truly cultured.
"Those, who litter, drink alcohol, smoke and do all that's prohibited, will not even care about special signs," Vidauskis emphasizes.
Therefore Vidauskis calls on the visitors of bathing places to even report polluters to the police.
One can call police and confidentially report these violations and that is the way we can collectively fight such problems.
Perhaps one can set up new warning signs, but, as I already told, it is not likely to make radical changes.
"We all must address the authorities and must be intolerant towards such violators," he stresses.
Meanwhile water quality measurements have been performed by the State Health Inspectorate for the fourth time this summer, and the agency is entitled to impose prohibition on official bathing places.
This year, just like the previous years, water quality is good or satisfactory everywhere.
Currently the water quality at all 56 swimming places remains good and there are no swimming restrictions.
"We will take the last samples of water at the end of August," Normunds Kadikis, senior specialist in environmental health issues of the Inspectorate, revealed.
Dropped garbage can be washed into water during heavy rain.
Consequently, it can affect water quality, the environmental expert points out.
