"Porgy and Bess" returns to stage after 10 years' break in Liepāja.
The opera "Porgy and Bess" was first performed in Latvia in 1973, as a production of the Latvian National Opera.
But, since then, the internationally recognized masterpiece has not seen another production.
Aware of this, the organizers of the Cesis Art Festival, in close cooperation with the organizers of the Liepaja Art Forum, decided to give audience an opportunity to enjoy George Gershwin's masterpiece again.
"We are extremely happy that, after a ten years' break since Liepaja could enjoy this opera for the last time, the new wonderful concert version of George Gershwin's "Porgy and Bess" has returned to the recently opened Great Amber concert hall", head of the concert hall Great Amber Baiba Boze told us.
"Porgy and Bess" is a story told in vivid operatic language about love, its impermanence, passion as well as everyday tragedies and simple joys of daily life.
It reflects the Afro-American vitality, music and rhythms.
The opera is so alive, because it forgoes political correctness and is unaware of our modern polities.
"And yes, this love story is very powerful, very beautiful and, in some respect, truly profound," said director Viesturs Kairiss.
When listening to or performing this opera, my favorite moments are its most popular tunes, famous motifs and transitions from one character to another by illuminating one person after another or alternately the choir and then the orchestra.
"The building is the most exciting part," the production is thus evaluated by Andris Poga, musical director and conductor of the "Porgy and Bess" concert version.
Audiences of the opera all agree that it is a cultural landmark.
They appear overjoyed at the possibility to see this world-renowned work by Gershwin.
It is so good to feel the world's culture descending in Liepaja.
"Professional performance," commented Edgars Lams after listening to the opera.
The concert version in the new concert hall Great Amber was significant due to the facts that an orchestra was playing in the orchestra pit for the first time and that an opera concert version was staged for the first time.
