Reconstruction of VEF Culture Palace will finally start this week.
Limited-liability company Velve is going to renovate the Palace for approximately 11 million euros.
It is planned to renovate several interior parts of the palace, including two auditoriums, and to make the building accessible for persons with reduced mobility.
The Riga City Council intends to attract EU funding for the project in the amount of six million euros, but Olegs Burovs, the director or the Riga City Council's Property Department, admits that currently there is no absolute clarity about the European money for this project.
"Notwithstanding that, there is a political will to start the repair works at the VEF Culture Palace and attracting European structural funds, we have been waiting for months for a decision, some real move by the officials of the Ministry of Finance, to understand if that money is granted or not," Burovs says.
Last December we were told that it completely depends on Brussels.
Two weeks ago the Ministry of Finance received a letter from the European Commission telling us to make a decision and that Brussels is not the entity to do that.
Now we see that another discussion round is being created, so let's see what to expect in the closest days to come.
"I want to confirm that the Riga City Council definitely guarantees that this process will be begun and completed in a timely manner," Burovs says.
As reported more than a year ago, in March 2015 the arts collectives of the VEF Culture Palace organized a farewell concert since the building's renovation was about to start very soon.
Even though a year has passed, the renovation has not started and the collectives have continued working in unsuitable conditions.
The strategy elaborated by the Riga City Council's Property Department for the renovation of the VEF Culture Palace is divided into seemingly independent units of reconstruction works each of those relate to different functions of the palace.
The first one concerns improvements of the VEF Culture Palace's accessibility and landscaping of the surrounding area.
It implies rebuilding the surrounding territory and utilities as well as renovating the building's exterior.
The second part concerns improvement of the VEF Culture Palace's range of services.
It mentions an improvement of building's interior; wall and ceiling restoration; stage and recording studio improvements; renovating the cabling and plumbing.
The third part: improvement of work conditions of the amateur arts collectives, namely, improvement of workshop equipment, heating and ventilation systems.
