Seventeen-year-old British teenager wanted to flee from Raqqa, and is reported to have been killed by a Russian air strike.
After the initial excitement and quick marriage to a jihadist, who was soon killed, came the sobering.
The caliphate paradise quickly turned into hell on earth for the British girls from which there was no escape.
The girl was, according to relatives, in touch with her sister Halima.
She called her repeatedly in the UK and confided to her that he wanted to come home.
To leave the Islamic State is like an attempt to escape from Alcatraz.
They have orders to shoot indiscriminately, the Daily Telegraph quoted the lawyer of the family of the dead girl, Tasnime Akunjee.
The family was able to trace the girl to Raqqa, where she contacted them from for the last time.
This was followed by the news of her death, which cannot be verified.
The family communicated with her from their flat in East London.
They discussed how she could leave Raqqa and cross the Turkish border.
There hoped to reunite with the former student there.
It appears that Kadiza may have been killed before she had a chance to escape, because the house, where she was staying was levelled to the ground in an air raid in May, said ITV News.
The UK TV broadcaster added that the bomb was probably dropped by a Russian aircraft attacking the IS stronghold in Syria.
You would do anything to get your child out of the danger zone, said Tasnim Akunjee, the family lawyer.
During the week when (Kadiza) was probably planning her escape, an Austrian girl was caught when she tried to escape and according to available information, beaten to death in public.
I think that (Kadiza) interpreted it as a warning and decided to play it safe" said Akunjee according to the BBC.
The family would do anything.
Kadiza Sutlana left for Syria together with her friends Amira Abase and Shamima Begum, who were both just 15 at the time, on 17 February last year.
They said at home that they were only going out.
Instead, they went to Gatwick Airport, from where they flew to Turkey, and then they crossed to the IS-held territory.
According to the family lawyer, the family did everything in their power to get Kadiza back.
You would do absolutely anything to get your child out of the danger zone, and this family did everything in their power to get their daughter back home.
This was not possible without risking that they will get caught, the lawyer added.
The only positive aspect is that the Kadiza's fate can serve as a deterrent to other girls or boys who allow themselves to be fooled by IS propaganda.
"There are many cases where people went there, they realised how things really are and how much the reality differs from the promises and propaganda spread by the Islamic State and they wanted to come back," said Akunjee.
The fate of Kadiza's classmates is not known.
As their families have not received any communications from them for some time now they have to brace themselves that they are most likely dead.
