The smoked salmon from the Albert supermarket contained a dangerous parasite.
The chain apologised.
Based on the health complaint from a consumer after eating the Wild Smoked Salmon- pieces 100 g, with the use-by date of 22.11.2016, the Prague hygienists carried out inspections of the Albert stores at Václavské náměstí and Na Můstku.
The inspection found that batch L23012562/T4 with a use-by date of 22.11.2016, the customer complained about was no longer available and sample was therefore taken from a product from the same batch with a use-by date of 11.12.2016.
Laboratory tests confirmed the presence of Anisakis spp., Anisakis simplex.
This is a common parasite present in the digestive tract of marine fish and mammals.
This worm is dangerous to humans as the larvae ingested can invade the internal organs through the stomach wall, said Šticha.
We are very sorry about the problem with this branded product.
We immediately withdrew the batch from sale, and we have also withdrawn all other batches of this product as a matter of precaution.
This is the responsibility of the supplier with whom are communicating, and we have also had the product tested, Barbora Vanko, the Albert spokeswoman said to Novinky.
Any customers who have purchased the product, can return it to any of our stores for a full refund.
The larvae are normally destroyed during processing i.e. during freezing or heating.
The seller was Nekton-Vrňata.
The hygienists informed the veterinary services in Prague and Central Bohemia about the dangerous product.
According to the server bezpecnostpotravin.cz, people can suffer from anisakiasis as a result of ingesting the parasite. The symptoms include stomach pains, vomiting and nausea, but some patients do not have any symptoms at all, said ČTK.
People can show symptoms on hour or up to two weeks after ingesting an infected fish which has not been sufficiently processed.
After three weeks from the onset of the disease, the larvae usually spontaneously leave the digestive tract of the host.
Adult worms and larvae are sensitive to high or low temperatures, and are therefore killed either during heat processing or freezing.
The veterinary service has inspected the salmon at the premises of the recipient of the imported goods in the Central Bohemia.
Three of the five examined samples tested positive for the parasite.
According to the State Veterinary Service (SVS), the shipment containing 1700 products came to the Czech Republic at the beginning of April.
It was mainly delivered to the Ahold chain of supermarkets, which received 919 packs to date.
We are currently in the process of withdrawing all unsold stocks from the stores, said the spokesman of SVS Petr Pejchal to ČTK on Friday.
Upon discovery of the positive samples, the veterinary service immediately banned the delivery of further products from the warehouse.
