Reconstructed road section opened in Medumi.
The Minister of Transport Uldis Augulis, the management of the SJSC Latvian State Roads (LSR) and representatives of the construction company SIA Binders as well as local municipality representatives today opened a reconstructed road section of the motor road connecting the border of Russia (Grebneva), Rezekne, Daugavpils and the border of Lithuania (Medumi): from Medumi to the border of Lithuania (156.4th -163.05th km).
Roads are the country's business card, especially border area roads, therefore we are especially excited to open the reconstructed section near our southern neighboring country.
This is another example showing that thanks to co-financing by the European Union funds the situation of the national motor roads improves.
"According to forecasts, the funds available for roads in this planning period will be acquired already in 2018 and we have to think how to further maintain the most heavily used motor roads in very good quality and how to ensure mobility in all regions of Latvia without the European Union funding," Uldis Augulis said when cutting the symbolic ribbon.
The Minister for Transport also pointed out that proposals on sustainable financing for Latvia's roads, prepared by traffic experts, will be soon presented to the government.
Roadworks from Medumi to the border of Lithuania (156.4th- 163.05th km) were started by SIA Binders last year and continued this year after a technological pause.
The reconstruction costs are 13.5 million euros (VAT inclusive), and the project was co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF).
"The road structure has been completely restored in the reconstructed road section and next year construction works will start again in the next section: from Medumi to Daugavpils, thus the entire road section from the border of Lithuania to Daugavpils will be reconstructed", Janis Lange, the chairman of LSR informed.
The national motor roads are the most heavily used, and we plan to ensure that by 2018 all national motor roads are in good condition.
The next task will be to maintain them in shape by timely maintenance and replacement of road surface every 7 to 9 years.
"It will require proper funding, of course, and all the involved are hopeful about proposals elaborated by the expert group concerning the road financing system's improvement," Lange noted.
Road connections and lighting in the center of Medumi center have been improved as part of the project.
Large-scale earthwork has also been completed: massive removal of peat and large-scale entrenchment and embankment works; the previously uneven longitudinal road profile has been leveled out in four large sections.
Public transport stops have been renovated, and a square for public transport maneuvering (for making turns) has been built anew.
Previously, the road did not have sufficient bearing capacity and the surrounding terrain prevented good visibility due to hills and valleys, and also the old road went along the course of the natural terrain.
During the next construction season, it is planned to reconstruct the motor road section from the Daugavpils city border until the currently reconstructed section (144.80thto 156.40th km).
This year, LSR plans to carry out different roadworks along more than 1,100 kilometers of national roads.
Information about all the planned repair works on national road network is available on LSR's website at www.lvceli.lv.
