By withdrawing her candidacy for the position of Director General of the State Revenue Service (SRS), the head of the State Environment Service Inga Kolegova has saved the government from collapsing, believes Ojars Skudra, prof. asoc. of the Faculty of Social Sciences of the University of Latvia.
Kolegova's explanation about her withdrawal of the candidacy in the context of controversies in the leading coalition is related to the fact that she has prevented the government from falling apart.
In conversation with the LETA news agency Skudra revealed that it is hard to imagine that in next week's session the Unity political party could support Kolegova's candidacy.
Therefore, if the ministers from Unity voted against but Kolegova would be elected anyway, it would lead to the resignation of the government.
The expert also believes that Kolegova had consulted both with the Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola and Prime Minister Maris Kucinskis before she announced that she withdraws her candidacy.
At the same time it means giving in to Unity which strongly opposes her candidacy.
If one should predict, whether it will be possible to find a more suitable candidate through a competition, Skudra told that there are two options: either a compromise figure is selected or the Deputy Director General Dace Peleka continues heading the institution.
He also points out that if the Minister for Finance so far asserted that another candidate is not being considered now, it is a hint to Peleka that she is not invited to participate in the competition.
As LETA already informed, the State Environment Service head Inga Kolegova decided to withdraw her candidacy for the position of Director General of the SRS.
Due to objections voiced by Unity, on Wednesday the government postponed Kolegova's approval for the position of Director General of SRS for one week.
After the government adopted a decision to postpone the decision, Kolegova assured that she is still ready to become the head of the SRS.
However, later she changed her mind: on Friday, in her application to the Minister for Finance Dana Reizniece-Ozola, she points out that she withdraws her consent to be transferred as the head of SRS and that it is not an easy choice for her.
Andrejs Vaivars , the Press Secretary of the Prime Minister Maris Kucinskis, explained to LETA that a new competition would be organised for the vacant position of General Director of the SRS.
