"For achieving the desired results in weight loss, a crucial factor is choosing your combinations of foods properly," believes the Lithuanian dietician Laura Romeraite-Kuklieriene.
And it shouldn't be that complicated during the summer season when fresh fruit, berries and vegetables are available from our gardens.
Well-considered combining of foodstuffs not only can help you in losing weight but also directly promote various useful processes in the body.
Pasta and vinegar make a good combination as they fill you up and help reducing body fat.
Studies published in the the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition show proof that vinegar favorably affects blood glucose levels and increases general vitality.
Thus, cayenne pepper and high-protein dishes such as poultry or protein mixes not only provide a sensation of satiety, but also reduce craving for large portions in subsequent meals.
This product combination can increase the amount of burnt calories after the meal even by up to 35 percent.
Research indicates that cayenne pepper can help getting rid of abdominal fat.
Eggs contain a metabolism-boosting nutrient called choline, while bell pepper is a great source of vitamin C.
Sufficient intake of these nutrients may reduce one's cortisol level and thus ward off fat deposits around the waist.
Oatmeal porridge with fresh berries is another kind of tasty fat-burning breakfast, worth including in your menu.
Oatmeal and berries contain dietary fiber which, according to some findings of Canadian scientists, control ghrelin, a hormone responsible for appetite and the amount of food we eat.
Moreover, berries contain polyphenols which help losing weight and prevent increases in body fat.
Vegetables and protein can also work wonders in weight loss.
Combined in one meal, they can make you feel satiated.
Vegetables contain water and dietary fiber therefore they also make you feel full.
At the same time protein slows down digestion and prevents feeling hungry for a longer time.
For lunch, you may want to choose chicken with salad or prepare a dose of protein mix and enjoy it with your favorite vegetables.
Food combinations to avoid.
Fruit contains sugars known as monosaccharides and disaccharides, appearing as single molecules or pairs.
By comparison, the starch found for example in vegetables is a polysaccharide.
Fruits are digested in the stomach mechanically but not chemically; the latter takes place when they reach the third or fourth stage in the digestive system, i.e., the intestines.
Digestion of starch is split over three various stages, starting in the mouth.
Therefore it is essential not to eat a dessert right after a meal.
If you do eat the dessert right after, it becomes "trapped" in the stomach together with other foods, yet it is not properly chemically digested and starts putrefying.
Certainly avoid consuming bread, potatoes, peas, bananas, dates or other high-carbohydrate foods together with lemons, limes, oranges, grapefruits, pineapples or other sour fruits.
The enzyme ptyalin, found in saliva, is active only in alkaline environment.
Fruit acids not only hinder the digestion of carbs, but also activate their fermentation.
Do not combine eggs and meat, nuts and meat, cheese and eggs or cheese and nuts, meat and milk, eggs and milk or nuts and milk and similar protein-rich pairs in one meal.
Different digestive fluids are required for digesting these, each fluid having a different acidity, characteristics and time to appear in the stomach.
Watermelon, honeydew, muskmelon and other melons should always be eaten separately from other foods.
Melons are not digested if they are in the stomach together with other foodstuff.
Combinations of fats and high-protein foods.
Fat makes a good combination with starch, but that is not the case with fats and proteins: fat impedes the digestion of proteins.
However, proteins can be combined with small amounts of fat.
If you tend to have a protein-rich diet, avoid consuming fats altogether.
The same applies also to the raw food diet: it is not recommended to combine large quantities of nuts (which contain protein) with an entire avocado (contains fats).
Such combination hampers weight loss.
Best ways of cooking.
"Cooking by heating the ingredients results in considerable loss of nutrients - about 15 to 55 percent of their initial nutritional value," points out the dietician.
In many cases nutrients are destroyed, if the cooking method is boiling.
Yet, the overall nutrition value of certain foodstuffs actually increases with boiling.
The liquid that remains after boiling your vegetables can be later used for making soup: thus you will not lose nutrients that dissolved in the water and they'll still be part of your meal.
The most recommended cooking method for vegetables is steaming.
Thermal processing considerably increases the availability of lycopene found in tomatoes.
After 30 minutes of boiling, the lycopene level in tomatoes rises by 25 percent.
Thermal processing also considerably increases the availability of beta-carotene, found in red, yellow and orange plants, for instance tomatoes, carrots, sweet potatoes and spinach.
Thermal processing of eggs and meat change some of the proteins' natural properties thus making them easier to digest.
Moreover, thermal processing of meat and eggs facilitates the absorption of iron and other minerals contained in these foods.
Bear in mind that freezing can reduce the quantities of vitamin C by 10 to a whopping 90 percent, yet freezing does not affect the fiber content.
Combined with tomatoes, beans can increase iron uptake in humans, resulting in a better brain and muscle performance.
Our body absorbs up to 33 percent less of the non-blood-building iron found in such plant-based foods as beans, leafy greens and cereal grains than the blood-building iron found in animal products such as beef, chicken or fish.
You can considerably increase the absorption of non-blood-building iron by combining products that contain it with additional vitamin C sources such as oranges, tomatoes and berries.
Vitamin C helps to alter non-blood building iron in such a way that our body can take it up more easily.
Iron is necessary for producing hemoglobin, which in its turn transports oxygen to muscle and brain.
To get the ultimate benefit from salads, add healthy fats such as olive oil or linseed oil.
When preparing sandwiches with salmon (ample source of vitamin D) or sardines, add plain yogurt - a great source of calcium.
Vitamin D increases the quantity of calcium absorbed in the intestines, thus it is important in bone building process.
Oats (as well as other wholegrain products) combined with sources of vitamin C, for example, strawberries, black currant, raspberries and other fruits or berries, helps to stabilize the cholesterol level and to prevent artery clogging.
