According to media disclosure, the large influx of capital into the Internet medicine has resulted in the serious problem of current product homogeneity. Investment boom fade gradually and capital came into the wait-and-see period.
According to the data of Hong Kong Ai Li Pi Hospital Management Research Center, a large number of start-up Internet medical companies languished just within one year and about 20% of the start-up Internet medical companies has ceased to exist.
However, just as the majority of Internet medical companies struggle in the road of A round or B round of financing, several sub-areas leading enterprises can still get the capital touted.
It seems that the Internet medical business shall not "swarm", but to see the needs of the market, and be professional and profound.
Yuyue invested 12 million yuan, accounting for 40% of the registered capital, while Jiuzhoutong invested 18 million yuan, accounting for 60% of the registered capital.
In recent years, with the country providing policy support in the medical information, electronic and integrated supply chain management system gradually enter the hospitals at all levels.
The cooperation between Yuyue and Jiuzhoutong is aimed at the needs of the market, helping the hospital to build advanced supply chain management system, and take this opportunity to seek more cooperation.
Unlike many Internet medical companies which go in for grandiose projects, iBaby focuses on the Internet obstetrics vertical field and be professional on pregnant mothers and doctors.
Pregnant women can not only enjoy 24 hours of medical services free of charge and one-on-one inquiry with doctors, but also pay for medical counseling.
At the doctor's side, iBaby breaks the geographical restrictions by taking the form of organizing experts to give grassroots doctors an online lecture, peer exchange, case discussion and so on.
At present, three plates are set up for doctor's client side, respectively, for doctors to continue education, social exchange and communication.
The following services are provided, including online learning, case discussion and academic exchange; social platform for the exchange of doctors of the same hospital and department; legal assistance, business support and other services required by doctor-patient relationship or personal life.
According to media reports, CEO Wang Lei recently said Ali health "is willing to get down" to win big health data.
Internet companies and data companies are short of professionalism. No unity can be provided on the same entry.
The layout of Ali in the medical and health field is divided into three plates, namely, Ali Health, Lynx Pharmacy and Alipay future hospital.
Wang Lei admitted that it was more difficult for medical and health companies to start up than other industries, "This is not just how much money you have. In addition, it requires people to be concentrated on it and endure the loneliness.
