Unfortunately, OPEC's latest monthly report shows that the crude oil production in July continued to increase and Saudi Arabia's output hit a new high.
The report cannot prevent the market from doubting the credibility of OPEC. Oil recovery path is still bristled with thorns.
On Monday, OPEC Chairman and Qatar Energy Minister Sada said OPEC will hold an informal meeting during the International Energy Forum on September 26-28.
The monthly report of OPEC on Wednesday showed that the output of the entire OPEC organization in July, including Gabon, increased by 46,000 barrels/day to 33.11 million barrels/day.
OPEC also said in a monthly report that low crude oil prices have prompted global refiners to produce more refined oil, thus increasing the degree of excess supply to the market.
Affected by this news, coupled with the production output expectations of rising crude oil and the unexpected increase in crude oil inventories, aggravating the excessive market supply.
As of Wednesday's close, the light crude oil futures of New York Mercantile Exchange fell by 2.48% in September and the future price of crude oil in October in London Brent fell by 2.07%.
Reuters believes that the proposed meeting of the oil-producing countries is unlikely to tighten the supply. The data released by US Energy Information Administration also suppress the market sentiment.
Iran's official news agency Fars on Wednesday, quoting the speech of Zanganeh, Iranian oil minister, said that Iran's daily crude oil production was up to 3.85 million barrels, which has been the highest level since 2008.
At the release of the news of the meeting, the Russian energy minister Novak said that it was unnecessary to conduct a new round of frozen production negotiations under the current oil price.
It was April when the oil-producing countries had meeting. No agreement was reached among the OPEC member countries.
Emma Richards, an oil and gas analyst at BMIResearch, said the market and the media could react excessively to OPEC's meeting.
Helima Croft, head of commodity strategy at Royal Bank of Canada, said OPEC changed the market sentiment by releasing signals that they would make an agreement.
This means like a smoke and a mirror that draws people's attention (deliberately giving a false impression).
Eugen Weinberg, director of commodity research at the German commercial bank, said the possibility of OPEC trying to stabilize the market through the September meeting was low.
This is likely to further undermine the market confidence in OPEC. After all, this organization already staged a "wolf is coming".
