Improvement of public sports facilities
Dark coal field warehouse is turned into a "green grass" football field while red brick spire plant is turned into a modern sports museum.
On the national fitness day, Nanluo Maying Sports Culture Park, outside the Hangzhou Wangjiang gate, unveiled its mysterious veil.
It was a coal field once and remained idle for more than 10 years after its closure. A large number of illegal construction and garbage were left behind.
After the renovation, it became a sports and cultural park, and will be officially opened in November to the public free of charge to provide sports venues. In addition, it would undoubtedly open up a new fertile soil for the whole people.
This reminds people of Hangzhou Chen Jinglun School. This is a "Whampoa Military Academy" in China's swimming world, in which several world champions were born.
Swimming champions will be produced continuously, producing a vivid interpretation of the relationship between competitive sports and national sports. The profound mass base provided a good condition for selecting professional players.
The level of competitive sports is closely related to the foundation of national sports. Athletic sports depend in a certain sense on national sports, and national sports depend on the conditions of the site.
According to reports, as of 2015, the area of China's per capita sports venues has been 150 times of that when the new China was established, but still far behind the sports power.
In June this year, the State Council issued a "National Fitness Program (2016 - 2020)" and took the development of mass sports as a key content.
In order to fill the short board, on the one hand, the relevant departments shall take full account of the layout of the stadium at urban planning.
On the other hand, the already built public sports venues, including schools and other units in the sports venues, should try to expand the scope of openness and try to improve efficiency as much as possible.
The Rio Olympic Games, which is in full swing, has stimulated people's enthusiasm for sports, but also aroused everyone's awareness of participation.
