He carried the two children whom he hit with his car in the boot so that "the seats would not get dirty"
The incident happened around Narince Village on the Kahta-Siverek highway yesterday.
The car, with the registration number 34 KS 6809, under the control of Mehmet K. and a bicycle used by Mustafa O. (14) crashed.
As a result of the crash, Mustafa O. and Hüseyin O., 13, were seriously injured.
The car driver put the injured children into the boot of the car so that 'the seats would not get dirty' and brought them to the Emergency Medical Station in Narince Village.
The two injured children were sent from there to the Kahta State Hospital by ambulance.
Among the injured, Hüseyin O. is fighting for life in intensive care.
Carried the children he hit in the boot so that the seats would not get dirty
Mustafa O. talked about the accident, "We were going to visit with friends."
We took our stuff.
The car hit us near the transformer around Prophet Ezra's tomb, Karadut Village.
My leg was broken by the impact of the crash.
The driver firstly took my friend and put him into the boot.
After that, he also took me and put me near my friend in the boot.
While putting me into the boot, my hand got stuck in the tailgate.
I shouted.
The driver, hearing my voice, opened the boot.
I pulled my hand.
He closed the boot again and brought us to Narince Village.
He said, "From there, they brought us to Kahta State Hospital by ambulance."
Families of the injured children, not filing a complaint at first, filed a complaint against the driver when they learned that he brought the children in the boot.
Grandfather of the wounded child Mustafa O. "I was in Kahta when the accident happened."
I learned on the phone that my grandson and nephew had an accident.
I immediately went to Kahta State Hospital.
They firstly brought my nephew.
They brought my grandson after 15 minutes.
Gerger Police Station Commander came.
The neighborhood representative asked me if I was making a complaint.
I said accidents happen everywhere.
I said I am not the complainant.
After that I went to the car that hit my nephew and grandson.
There was so much blood in the boot.
After that we learned he put both of the injured children into the boot after hitting them and brought them to the hospital in that way.
He put my nephew on the bottom and my grandson on the top of the boot.
The guy said that he did not put them in the boot.
However, the back seats are very clean.
He said, "Such a thing is impossible."
One of the Narince Village inhabitants Mehmet Kaya said, "The driver that hit the children brought the injured here."
The children, the injured, got out of the boot of your car.
He said, "He did something that he should not have done, even to an animal."
Uncle of the wounded, Osman O. said, "What kind of a person is the guy who hit these children?"
Accidents can happen, people may die during these accidents.
However, it is a terrible thing that he brought the injured to the hospital in the boot.
We will closely follow this issue.
One of these children is fighting for his life.
The other's condition is also serious.
He brought the injured from Narince to Kahya in the boot of his car.
God damn him.
Do not let such a savage incident happen again.
It is cutting us to the bone.
We will complain and follow up this case.
He said, "We want that this person is punished in the severest way."
