Striking expressions from Robert Amsterdam about FETO!
An official from the Amsterdam&Partners law company which juristically investigates the internationally illegal activities of the Fetulllah Terrorist Organization (FETO), Robert Amsterdam shared information with the USA magazine Forbes by writing an article about how FETO is organized.
Stating that FETO ringleader Fetullah Gülen manages the organization from his mansion in Pennsylvania, Amsterdam stated, "When we look closely at how Gülen operates around 150 charter schools in the USA, it will be clearly seen that the organization has a secret underground organizational capability of the highest degree."
Explaining that he was tasked by Turkey with the duty of investigating Gülen connected companies and schools seven months ago, Amsterdam stressed that their findings until now are "shocking."
Amsterdam shared the following opinions in his article:
According to the information we received from the denunciators, the Gülen organization has a rigid hierarchy in which instructions are conveyed.
These instructions are generally conveyed to Poconos during face to face meetings with Gülen.
On the top, there is a management group (consultation group) consisting of seven people.
This group conveys the instructions to the advisory committee.
From this, the instructions go, respectively, to regional imams, country imams, regional imams within the country, provincial imams, regional imams within the provinces, neighborhood imams, imams of the student houses (houses of light) and the students.
The businessmen, bureaucrats and commissioned officers are working at various levels in accordance with their position in the organization and their support.
Stating that the organization opened 55 thousand places of business all over the world and has the widest charter school network, Amsterdam said that millions of dollars are given to these schools from the taxes paid by American taxpayers every year.
Amsterdam wrote that most of this money is directed by the organization members and transferred to the "chosen" subcontracting companies.
Amsterdam explained this process with these examples:
Magnolia schools, established in California, was caught while giving 700 thousand dollars to a Gülen connected company, with which it shares the same office, in return for the service contract.
Amsterdam showed Dove Science Academy in Oklahoma as another example.
Amsterdam noted that also this school paid 3.1 million dollars more to the landlord, and it was determined in the audit that the management of the school and landlord consisted of the same people who are connected to Gülen.
Drawing attention to the fact that there are similar situations in Harmony schools, which have 46 branches and occupies the biggest place in the Gülen network, Amsterdam stated that money was paid to the Gülen connected smaller companies for such items as software licenses, receiving of the curriculum.
Underlining the fact that the structures within FETO make each other rich, Amsterdam said, "The examples I gave show that around 28 million dollars from American taxpayers are misused."
He added, "moreover, this is the visible part of what we found up until now."
Indicating that nothing was done to prevent this kind of thing up until now, Amsterdam said that the situation got much worse over the course of time, and upon this, the Texas Education Agency started to investigate the irregularities.
Amsterdam stressed that the schools operate normally on the surface, and many employees do not know anything about the kind of corruption taking place.
Amsterdam said, "However, in fact, these schools work like a profit machine for Gülen."
He deduced, "Gulen then uses the huge amount of money for political donations to conceal his illegal activities."
Saying that, according to statements from a former American educator who worked in these schools, some employees in Gülen schools had separate meetings and transferred an amount from their wages to the organization, Amsterdam said, "It is believed that Gülen members in the Turkish Armed Forces are working in a similar way."
Coup plotters strengthened their position over the years.
He wrote, "However, while the army operates in a normal way on the surface, a parallel power was collecting power behind the scenes."
Amsterdam finished his article as follows:
There are question marks in the minds of the policymakers in the USA about July 15-16 and the incidents after that and this is an expected thing.
However, those in state authorities should realize that USA laws are violated serially in Gülen's operations while dealing with the situation of the two allies on the diplomatic level.
