The coup plotters were stalled, TV broadcasts were not interrupted
Playing an important part in preventing the coup attempt on the night of July 15, private television stations continued to broadcast thanks to technical personnel in Türksat that heroically resisted the coup plotters.
See this hero, Asım Akkaya...
Stating that they entered a mental attitude of resistance after the instruction to cut the broadcast while an announcement was read on TRT, Akkaya said, "I was prepared to give my right arm after thinking that my friends became martyrs in the firing started from the helicopter."
They held a gun to my head and wanted me to cut the broadcast.
I shut down only local TV.
After that I said that we need to go to the dish antennas to make them move away from the building.
I spent around 20 minutes in the section in which there are antennas.
He said, "I cut some of the cables also here but did not interfere with the broadcasts."
When the coup plotters could not succeed in cutting the broadcast in Türksat, they brought experts from Samanyolu TV.
These terrorists were arrested by the police who arrived at the crime scene after 3 minutes.
Indicating that the coup plotters understood that TV broadcasts were continuing when they came back to the building after a telephone call came to them around 1 hour later and that he had a close brush with death at that time, Akkaya talked about what he experienced as follows:
That night, I took over guard duty at 8 o'clock.
That place was entrusted to us.
My friends were on duty in the e-State and electrical system respectively.
When we met at 21.00 to drink tea, helicopters passed over us on low altitude flights.
There were several aircraft around the helicopter that made a silent and low altitude flight.
We saw their lights.
Possibly, they were unmanned aerial vehicles that can take pictures.
They were flying in front of the helicopters.
I have been there for 11 years, and I called the regular army because I saw such a low flight for the first time.
After that the movement started.
While watching the news we learned that the bridge was closed.
During that time our general director gave the order for friends that were not on their shift of guard duty to come to the building.
While we were going to the regular army to get information, we learned that all the programs broadcast by TRT were off-air.
TRT broadcasts were cut for 5 minutes.
I called the TRT program controller but I could not reach anyone.
Our control station said that TRT broadcasts came back on-air and the announcement started to be read.
Our Assistant General Director, Halil Yeşilçimen, wanted TRT broadcasts to be immediately cut upon the instruction of the general director.
As TRT 3 did a wide broadcast from the channel, we started to prepare the works to cut the broadcast.
A short while ago we heard Prime Minister Binali Yıldırım say, "there is an attempt."
Our director's "cut TRT" instruction somewhat brought us to a mental state of resistance.
We cut TRT, and after a while we heard the sound of a helicopter.
We went out, the helicopter landed and the army started shooting everywhere, everyone scattered somewhere.
We hid in a building at the back.
We were 12 people in total.
When we went back, the soldiers disembarking from the helicopter entered inside.
Soldiers wounded some of our friends.
We showed up to stand with them.
At that time, I saw that they caught our general director and brought him to his knees.
The soldiers talked among themselves.
One of them said, 'let's shoot one of them, let them be scared.'
After that they made all of us sit inside.
Their commanders started to shout, "Who is in charge here, I won't ask again."
Especially when we heard such talk as, "let's shoot one of them", we thought like this: We know nothing about our hometown but the instruction to 'Cut TRT' came to us.
That is to say there is a resistance.
At that moment I felt that I gave up on my life.
I said, 'it is me.'
I got to my feet up at that moment not knowing what to do.
At that moment, the only thing I thought is the fact that fire had started from the helicopter towards my friends at the regular army office.
I thought that 10-15 of my friends became martyrs at the regular army office and I felt a kind of comfort when I thought 'they will kill us sooner or later.'
The commander at the head of them said, 'You will cut all broadcasts except TRT.'
There is a system in which we monitor local channels when they are going up to the satellite.
We send 80 of 200 local channels for broadcast from the room in question.
This room came to my mind.
There were no national broadcasts among them.
If I cut them and say that all of them are cut, at least support will come or help will reach us from outside.
I said I would do whatever I could do.
After all, we faced up to the fact that we won't be able to get out from there.
I said, 'OK, I will cut.'
I cut the antenna output of one of the local channel packages.
I cut the power button going to the monitors in which we can watch the national channels.
In this way, it will be written no signal in all the screens.
I said that I needed to go to the antennas to completely cut them.
The commander sent me to the antenna with two soldiers.
I opened the antenna room, one of the soldiers said, "stop there."
He held the gun to my forehead.
He said, 'You will cut all of them except TRT, there will be none remaining, I will shoot one of you sooner or later, it will be you.'
As I had already given up on my life, I said without fear, 'When you go, you will see that all of them are frozen', I did not say anything else.
We entered the station and I cut the local broadcasts.
We passed to the other antenna.
At that time there was a system that corresponded to around 20 national channels.
When I cut the local channels, around 20 monitors went blank.
God helped us in such a way that both of us had no difficulty when we answered and it confused them for a moment.
They believed the answers we gave.
They did not persist.
We were relieved.
After leaving the antenna they asked where the transformer was.
I said, 'I don't know I am a TV broadcaster', he asked, 'Is there an electrician.'
I said, 'There is no electrician in the evening after working hours, if there is a malfunction a team comes.'
In fact there is an electrician at that time.
It occurred to me that I did not cut the Cyprus broadcasts.
I was thinking about cutting them to stall the soldiers.
They felt relieved because they thought that the broadcasts were cut.
They did not think of looking at the broadcasts.
Then the group proceeded to wait.
When they turned on the TV in the waiting area after about an hour, they saw A Haber broadcasting.
The soldier entered.
He said, 'My commander, A Haber has not stopped broadcasting.'
Myself and the commander caught each other's eye.
He said, 'stand up.'
I stood up.
At that moment one soldier said, 'there are still continuing broadcasts.'
He said, 'there are channels broadcasting in Cyprus.'
I said, 'they are broadcasting through Cyprus, we cannot do anything to them.'
He said, 'After writing to someone, he made us stand up and said walk.'
The coup plotters escaped from Türksat by minibus.
I saw from the photos that the soldier who brought me to the toilet and gave me water was killed on the seat of that minibus.
They fired 3 times to his forehead and shot him in his cheeks.
My friends also confirmed that he was the soldier.
They called that soldier a 'youngster' when they were with us.
Possibly he was a private soldier that did his military service.
They may have executed him to get rid of him.
According to Asım Akkaya's expressions, the first police squad came to Türksat from Gölbaşı.
When the police learned that there are helicopters around and the security guards were shot at, they went to the district to get ammunition.
They came back after 40 minutes.
When the police squads came they could not see anyone at the Türksat outer security gate.
Saying that the so-called experts came to the building just 3-4 minutes after the police, Akkaya said, "They said to the police 'they called us from inside, we are Türksat personnel, we have to enter immediately.'"
He said, "When the police asked their identity, all four people hastily grasped their phones and informed the inside 'we got caught.'"
