The sky will be the scene of meteor showers
TÜBİTAK National Observatory Researcher and Istanbul University Astronomy and Space Sciences Department Lecturer Dr. Hasan Esen said in his explanation to AA reporters that Perseid will reach the highest level at night from Friday, August 12, to Saturday, August 13.
Stating that the Perseid meteor shower is formed when thousands of particles drift apart from the comet named "Swift - tuttle" from the effects of the sun and gravity, Esenoğlu explained that this situation will become a visual feast.
Esenoğlu pointed out that the Perseid meteor was discovered for the first time in 1862 and started to be seen from earth since the 1990s.
Mentioning that the Perseid meteor shower can be seen in July and August, Esenoğlu said, "We should watch and care about such a visual feast coming from the space."
After all, it is a natural visual feast.
He said, "It will aid us in knowing the universe in a better way."
They will sparkle red when they are cold, white when they are hot
He drew attention to the fact that some of the lentil-sized particles separated during the meteor shower will drop to earth, and continued as follows:
Perseid's temperature may increase up to 2 thousand degrees centigrade.
Because of the heat and friction in the atmosphere, the Perseid shower produces red light when cold and white light when hot in their natural environment.
A contribution can be made by writing how many meteors are seen on the website of the International Meteor Organization.
These data carry valuable information as they are collected from every part of the world.
It will be possible to watch it all night
Explaining that the meteor shower travels at a speed of around 60 km/h, Esenoğlu said that this visual feast in the sky can be well seen from places that receive little light in the northeast direction during the whole night.
Explaining that more than 100 meteor showers happen every year, Esenoğlu mentioned that the Geminid meteor shower between December 4-17 is a well worth watching natural event after the Perseid meteor shower.
