The cases of 37 thousand commissioned officers are going to be opened
After repelling the coup attempt by FETO members under the instruction of terrorist ringleader Fetullah Gülen, a reorganization process started in the Turkish Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defense.
When it was understood that the questions for entry into military high schools were stolen by FETO and the military students that are not members of the organization were sent from the school through intimidation, an extensive cleanup process started.
With the latest dismissal, while 37 thousand commissioned officers remained from 39 thousand 287 commissioned officers, the clean up carried out for the generals and admirals will also be conducted for commissioned officers.
Because of this, promotions will be suspended especially in the squads from lieutenant to commissioned officer grade.
An extensive investigation will be completed before the promotion.
The cases of 37 thousand commissioned officers started to be opened one by one.
FETO member soldiers will be uncovered through detailed enquiries.
The commissioned officers who have no relation with FETO will continue in their posts.
It is stated that the struggle will continue until the last FETO member is cleared from the army, the promotion of commissioned officers will return to the agenda only after the investigation.
MİT, Police Intelligence and the State Supervisory Council are conducting the investigation together.
Within the scope of the investigation, research will focus on whether the commissioned officers, whose case were opened, rose in rank from non-military or by finishing the military college and the promotions they earned, the places they performed their duties and their commanders.
In addition, it will be investigated whether they are FETO members or not with a detailed investigation into their enlistment period.
All measures will be taken so that the commissioned officers who do not have any relation with FETO will not be affected by the process.
If any tiny suspicion is found, that commissioned officer will be suspended from duty and brought to the judgment.
Among those determined to have a relation with FETO, the ones about whom information and documentation are found, will be discharged from the army.
While all promotions are suspended, the investigation will be widened.
Measures will be taken so that there won't be any vacancies after the dismissals.
If requested, those who were dismissed from the Turkish Armed Forces because of the FETO conspiracy, and the ones who were made to retire forcibly, can return to their jobs with the same equivalent positions after going through a security investigation.
2 THOUSAND 133 COMMISSIONED OFFICERS WERE DISMISSED
Turkish General Staff announced the number of personnel in the Turkish Armed Forces as 39 thousand 287 commissioned officers on July 1.
Consisting of lieutenants, first lieutenants, captains, squadron leaders, lieutenant colonels and colonels, most of the 32 thousand 289 personnel in the commissioned officer level were on duty in Land, Air and Naval forces.
However, in the first wave of dismissals on July 27, a total of 1099 commissioned officer were discharged from duty and consisted of 726 from Land, 314 from Air, and 59 from Naval forces.
In the July 31 decree, relations with 304 commissioned officers with the Turkish Armed Forces were severed, 125 from Land forces and 909 from the General Command of the Gendarmerie.
