Varicose veins are not used in heart operations!
Varicose is a disease which is increasing in frequency in recent years.
Primarily affected by genetic proximity, long working hours, jobs that require standing for a long period and sitting for a long period have caused an increase in complaints of varicose.
Can the veins be used in heart operations?
The questions like, "I have varicose, what is done if I have a heart attack in the future?" are frequently asked by people.
Here are the answers to these questions.
There are two types of vein system in the legs:
1. In the leg, there is a vein system that we call the main path which carries venous blood to the lungs and collects the main venous blood of the leg.
These are named the deep femoral vein and superficial femoral vein.
These problems in the veins are seen less often, the vessel cannot be closed during illness and medical treatment is applied to keep these veins open.
In the leg, there is a superficial vein system which we refer to as the lateral pathway that carries venous blood to the lungs and integrates with the deep vein system in the groin.
This system consists of two big and two small veins we call saphena.
Deficiency and varicose grow in all of these four vessels.
The veins, which can be used in heart operations, are the superficial veins called big saphena.
A lack of these vessels does not cause any harm to the body and for this reason, they can be used in heart operations.
However, the vessels should be healthy for these vessels to be used in a heart operation.
Because the heart is a vital organ.
The operation of removing varicose veins or burning with a laser by leaving them in place via an operation reduces the workload of deep veins and ensures that the leg is healthier.
It is wrongly believed among people that the vessels can be used as a spare even if they have varicose.
Varicose veins are never ever used in heart operations!
There are other vessels that can be used in heart operations.
The spare vessel systems that can be used in heart operations are under the rib cage, around the stomach and arm.
Therefore, keeping varicose veins to use for the heart and worries about this issue are groundless.
Radiology Specialist Dr. Rengin Türkgüler
