Explanation from Çavuşoğlu about Zekeriya Öz
Çavuşoğlu gave an answer to the question about the claims that Zekeriya Öz and Adil Öksüz were arrested in Georgia, "This information is not correct right now."
However, various reports are coming.
All of them are evaluated.
We are in close contact with Georgian officials.
He said, "All the details, information, reports are evaluated studiously."
Çavuşoğlu gave an answer to the question about whether there is a suspicion that they are in Georgia, "Zekeriya Öz escaped to Georgia before."
He was detected by cameras at the customs gate.
There is information that he is going to and coming back from Europe.
We are investigating and following up on all the information coming to us about not only these two but also other escapees.
He added, "we will pursue them wherever they escape to."
Çavuşoğlu gave an answer to the question about his meeting with his Iranian counterpart Javad Zarif, "Bilateral subjects were evaluated."
There are many issues between Turkey and Iran.
Politics, commerce, transportation, energy, and the fight against terrorism are our mutual struggles.
There are also regional issues.
Syria being in first place, Syria, Iraq, Yemen and the Gulf Region.
Turkey and Iran may play an important role in the solution of the problems in the region we live in.
We are in an agreement on many issues.
We are in agreement on many topics like Syria's territorial integrity, border integrity, cleaning of Syria of DAESH and other terrorist organizations, and having an inclusive government.
We had different ideas for Assad.
However, we will continue to discuss them as usual.
We are in agreement for the ceasefire and continuation of the Geneva negotiations.
Agreement on many topics has basically no meaning if it does not bring any results.
He said, "The important thing is to get results."
Çavuşoğlu answered the question about when Turkish war crafts will participate in the operations in Syria, "Our delegation went to Moscow for this matter."
He said, "Our aim in establishing these mechanisms is the steps to be taken especially in the struggle against DAESH and these steps should be taken in coordination so that no incident or accident will happen."
Çavuşoğlu answered the question about the purchase of gas from Iran, "Iran and Turkey are two brother countries."
Arbitration courts should not make decisions, let us make an agreement among ourselves on this matter.
There is also reproach.
We should make these agreements without going through the arbitration court.
He said, "There were requests by us regarding a discount in gas and the prices."
Çavuşoğlu answered the question about the date of his visit to America and about the return of Gülen, "A delegation will come to America on the 22nd."
Meetings will be held on August 23-24.
Our Ministry of Justice is preparing the file.
As soon as the file is ready, visits from the US will follow.
He said, "We will go to Washington with our Minister of Justice and both deliver the files and hold a meeting."
