Tolga will take off - Sports News
Galatasaray President Dursun Özbek answered questions from members of the media at a dinner organized by Galasarasay sponsor NEF yesterday evening, and gave his support to the expat footballer Tolga Ciğerci, whose transfer and yearly wage became a matter of debate.
FOOTBALLERS WILL SPEAK, NOT ME
Saying that the football team is in a much better condition in comparison with last year, Dursun Özbek stated, "Nevertheless, the footballer should speak on the pitch about this matter, not me" and added as follows: "I cannot say anything."
Let 2-3 weeks pass and let me see the teams, only then can I say what our championship chances are.
I am expecting Tolga to take off.
You will see that Tolga will explode with his style and physique this year and everyone will watch with admiration.
Galatasaray President stressed that they made contact with Mehmet Topal in the transfer period but they can only step in if he does not agree a deal with his team, and he stated the following: "We did not want to push and make our rivals increase the price."
Mehmet Topal is a gentleman and a good sportsman.
If he does not agree with his current team we would like to bring him to Galatasaray.
BANK DEBTS WILL BE SETTLED WITH RIVA
Indicating that they will soon start construction of a hall next to the TT Arena, Özbek said, "We wanted to make a hall with a capacity of 13 thousand people."
But our President said, 'Build a hall with a capacity of 15 thousand people.'
We changed the project.
We will settle the bank debts with the money coming from Riva.
MAY WILL BE OURS AGAIN
Expressing his belief that the team, who finished last season by winning the Turkish Cup, will show its quality against Besiktas in the final match of the Super Cup, Galatasaray President, Dursun Özbek, put forward his claim with an expression that has become a slogan in the yellow-red team.
Saying, "May will be ours", the president, Özbek, expressed his belief that Galatasaray will be champions again after a period of one year.
