200 million worth assets of Hakan Şükür and his father were seized
The Sakarya Public Prosecutor's Office made a decision for the detention of Hakan Şükür and his father, Selmet Şükür, who is working as a contractor in Sakarya, within the scope of the FETO investigation.
An investigation was conducted in the houses of Hakan Şükür, now in the United Stated of America, and his father Selmet Şükür, in Adapazarı and Sakarya.
Selmet Şükür could not be found in spite of the investigation.
Police took action after it was reported that Selmet Şükür was present at Friday prayers in the Salko Mosque in Sakarya street in Adapazarı.
Going to the mosque, the squads waited for the prayers to conclude.
After prayers had finished, Selmet Şükür raised his hands when he saw the police officers.
Selmet Şükür, for whom there is an arrest warrant, was put into a police car and brought to the Police Department.
Gökhan Şükür went to the front of the Police Department in his car by following the squad car in which his father was brought.
The Sakarya Public Prosecutor's Office determined that Hakan Şükür and his father Selmet Şükür provided financial support to FETO.
Examining the application of the Prosecutor's Office, the Vacation Peace Court made a decision for the seizure of Hakan Şükür and his father Selmet Şükür's real estate, land transportation vehicles, bank and other financial institutions accounts, all the rights and receivables at the real and legal entities, negotiable instruments under their responsibility, partnership interest in the companies, remaining balances in the safe deposit box and other assets of value.
The decision of the court was notified to the directorates of the land registry, the police department, and tax offices.
In the first investigation of Hakan Şükür and his father, Selmet Şükür, they are determined to be real estate rich.
It was determined that Hakan Şükür and his father have flats in Sakarya, Antalya, Bodrum, İstanbul Bakırköy, Beşiktaş, Büyükçekmece, buildings in Adapazarı and Sapanca and land in Kandıra.
Selmet Şükür was determined to have built luxury villas on a 10-acre site in the Serdivan District of Sakarya.
It was determined that Hakan Şükür has a prep school in the city center of Adapazarı, which was closed by tax inspectors under the Sakarya Group Directorate of Tax Inspection Board in the Ministry of Finance within the scope of the FETO investigation.
It is expressed that the value of Hakan and his father, Selmet Şükür's assets is around 200 million lira.
