More than 500 thousand Russian tourists are expected
At the EXPO 2016 meeting organized in the Antalya exhibition area, Professional Hotel Managers Association (POYD) Head, Ali Kızıldağ, stated that Turkish-Russian relations were on the right path before the July 15 coup attempt, scheduled flights started from Russia to Antalya and a certain level of revival has been experienced in tourism.
Stating that the meeting between President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and President of Russia, Vladimir Putin, excited the tourism sector as well as trading sectors between the two countries. Kızıldağ said, "I expect that there will be many positive developments with regard to both tourism and all sectors from agriculture to food, and from construction to textile."
Turkey and Russia are two very close countries and we have traditional relationships going back many years.
He said, "On the path that the two countries' leaders have opened, I think we, as the sectors, will close the gap immediately and reach our goals if we make progress rapidly."
Mentioning that if the coup attempt had not occurred the number of Russian tourists to Turkey would have exceeded 1 million, Kızıldağ continued as follows:
We lost one month in the period that we call high season so targets have been downsized.
Even so, I think we will surpass the number of 500 thousand if charter flights start.
Moreover, it may be possible that the season extends to the end of October, or even to the middle of November.
In such a case, additional flights may be added at the beginning of the year.
I suggest that this positive atmosphere will be well appreciated by Russian people.
They also have a longing for Turkey.
With this momentum, I think we can do our best to hopefully reach 700 thousand.
Stating that they feel hopeful for 2017 with regard to the Russian market, Kızıldağ said that if the Russian economy gathers strength along with relations between the two countries, the number of Russian tourists may reach over 3 million again next year.
Stating that domestic reservations started, little by little, with the lifting of the ban on public servants traveling, POYD Head Kızıldağ said, "There has been a turnaround in cancelled reservations and new reservations have also started to be taken."
He said, "We have hopeful expectations for Eid al-Adha."
Kızıldağ expressed that Iran's lifting of the ban on travel agencies regarding the sale of tour tickets after the coup attempt is also a very good development and said, "It would be very good if we could bring 100-200 thousand people from Iran in 1,2-2 months."
