Hüseyin Gülerce: Gülen's demise depends on the collapse of 3 stands
Commenting on the coup attempt by FETO, Hüseyin Gülerce made striking statements.
The headlines from Hüseyin Gülerce's statements are as follows:
It occurred to me that they would attempt a coup and I wrote for the last 5-6 months in my articles that "they may attempt to do that but they cannot do it within the chain of command."
I did not know two things; the first one is that it would be widespread and deep, for example, 8-year aide de camp of the Turkish Gendarmerie Forces Commander and aides of the esteemed President.
The esteemed President is the person who struggled most; god knows he was careful when selecting his aides but their most important characteristic is unprecedented confidentiality.
They are real hypocrites.
One of the most important pieces of proof of the expression, "This is not something that a retired preacher like FETO could do" is the fact that it is such a deep conspiracy.
He is certainly receiving support from the CIA.
The CIA started to collaborate with this person very early.
Mahmut Övür said in 2014 that Fuat Doğu and Fetullah Gülen had a meeting at Vehbi Koç's house in 1971.
The people who paid attention to these matters most at that time said that the relations between MİT and the CIA are in a very close period.
The USA paid the wages of our armed forces, and before we remembered this, a guy emerged one way or the other.
When we learn this is in 2014.
After Mahmut Bey's article, there were no statements to deny it.
For example, Adil Öksüz was caught in the base, was he not?
It is wondered who he is.
The guy went to Pennsylvania 2 times within the last 25 days before the coup attempt, and came back 2 days before.
Adil Öksüz went abroad 109 times since 2002.
When you gather them together, this should be investigated; it should be investigated which ones of those who are escapees now went to the USA with an excuse after March 1999 when Fetullah Gülen went to the USA.
It will be seen that they went to Pennsylvania for some reason.
However, their major contacts with the CIA can be determined from this; Among the people to be promoted, especially in the Police Department, there are many who were sent to the USA.
It is in the Wikileaks documents; Gülen has a foundation established and this foundation has mutual meetings with the CIA.
Work has been done to show these relationships with the CIA in official records 15 years before.
I said that Fuat Avni is an intelligence pool in Pennsylvania 2 years before.
The person who worked in the Prime Minister's Office works for Fuat Avni.
However, the bad thing is the following; this information fell to Pennsylvania as well as the CIA.
Gülen's fall depends on the collapse of three stands; one of them constitutes the friendship circle that we call grassroots; there are quite deeply hypnotized ones among them, they are still saying that this coup attempt is an Erdoğan film.
As I said before, the first one is grassroots support.
The stealing of the questions, the theft and violation of rightful shares damaged the grassroots support very much.
The other two stands are political support and international support.
International support still exists.
The only thing to break the political support is authentication of the fact that the tapes of Baykal and MHP managers were taken by FETO.
After July 15, esteemed Kılıçdaroğlu is also using "FETO"; everyone has opened their eyes.
Gülen is such a trickster that he says, "I did not do it, those around me did it."
When he is next to me, he says, "For God's sake, Hüseyin Bey, these female disciples are seeing very unusual dreams and sending them to me, now I banned it because it is not good to act on your dreams."
A voice recording appeared; in this voice recording the speaker is Barbaros Kocakurt: Hodja, friends saw a dream, our Prophet said double up the tweets.
