The way of democracy, the way we know
I am saying a simple thing: The people in Turkey lost 250 martyrs to the FETO member parasites, waylayers and instigators within the army and established democracy rather than lose it on the evening of July 15.
Behind July 15, there are three periods; 1992-2002; 2002-2012; 2012 and after.
There are three changes prepared in these three periods: economic, social and political.
Two big phenomena prepared the social change: immigration from rural areas to metropolises and movement of these migrants to the centers after being kept on the outskirts of the cities for a long time.
I stated on Wednesday that this movement happened via the metro.
I also said, 'do not underestimate the metro' and stressed that it is the most important social change factor.
The second biggest change in the same direction is bridges and roads.
The contribution of roads and bridges to the modernization is more easily understood.
A road is introduced, economic and social structures change.
In our case, it also changed the political structure in the same way.
I determined all along this history of the bridges that were constructed across the Bosphorus in İstanbul.
Demirel built the Bosphorus Bridge.
This was the peak of the post-1950s peasant movement in the 1960s.
Özal continued the progress in this direction with the second bridge, the name of which has changed to July 15 Martyrs Bridge.
Even the routes of these roads show the relationship established between the periphery-center.
It is the sign of what kind of a social change path is followed.
Demiral and Özal's aim was to melt the big masses in the center.
It was to make them adopt the ideology of the center.
The AK Party did not build the third bridge for many years.
Because the immigration continued at full speed.
The incoming people were placed in the satellite cities.
A somewhat closed system was created in those regions.
The AK Party's local management gave the people food, jobs and social status; they gave their vote to the AK Party.
In this way, the masses acquired their political awareness on the periphery and then came to the center as "themselves".
This development is related to the ongoing discussions about the headscarf before the AK Party (1992-2002).
These discussions accepted the necessity of conservative, mutual, and provincial people not to be centralized but to stand side by side.
After 2002, the AK Party acted with the method I stated, politicized the masses, integrated them into the politics and matured them.
After that, now pay attention to this, 3. Bridge construction is simultaneous with the democratic struggle on July 15.
That is to say, history and sociology overlapped.
Let me add one more dimension: AK Party's move I mentioned is not limited to İstanbul's bridges.
A more interesting thing happens: Now the AK Party is integrating peripheral cities with central cities.
This is ensured via two bridges.
The first one is Osmangazi Bridge.
The second one is Çanakkale 1915 Bridge.
Add roads to this.
Turkey will reach İzmir from Thrace via another route now.
Do you know what this means? İzmir will become an utterly different city from now on.
Let's say that the AK Party will win İzmir from the 'outside', as it could not win from the 'inside.'
From now on, the cities of Bursa, Çanakkale and Thrace will be transformed into other human and social geographies.
That's it!
The July 15 martyrs are the stars of this big adventure.
