The Red Crescent started its Eid al-Adha Donation Campaign
Organizing a relevant Sacrificing Campaign by proxy, Kızılay is calling benefactors with the slogan "Let Eid al-Adha abundance continue all year round", in Eid al-Adha this year.
Red Crescent Head Dr. Kerem Kınık said, "The sacrificial animals are properly slaughtered and made into canned foods."
He said, "Meat from Eid al-Adha is healthily distributed to needy people all year round."
The Red Crescent announced the Eid al-Adha donation fee is 740 lira at home and 475 lira abroad.
Having become a tradition and organized for the ninth time, the Red Crescent's Sacrificing by Proxy Campaign also continues this year.
Standing with the needy people around the world and in our country, the Red Crescent will deliver meat from Eid al-Adha that was properly slaughtered and made into canned food to the dinner tables of hundred of thousands of people thanks to the campaign.
Introducing the Eid al-Adha donation campaign to the press, Red Crescent Head Dr. Kerem Kınık stated that they started a big mobilization to ensure that the abundance and joy of Eid al-Adha would be celebrated all over the world, and said, "Meat from Eid al-Adha is made into canned food in a hygienic way."
He said, "In this way, meat from Eid al-Adha will be consumed by needy people in a healthy way all year round."
Halal slaughtering and the sending of DVDs to donors Thanks to the Red Crescent's "Red Crescent's Model in Eid al-Adha", the benefactors easily fulfill their Eid al-Adha worship in accordance with the aim and rules.
Thanks to this modern model, the carefully chosen sacrificial animals will be picked by the veterinaries from the Meat and Milk Institution and slaughtered in accordance with Islamic methods in the modern slaughterhouses of the institution by reading the names of proxy holders in the first three days of Eid al-Adha.
Religious officials, veterinaries and notaries will attend the slaughters to be practiced in accordance with Islamic conditions.
Cooked meat, made with meat from Eid al-Adha will be canned and put into 800 gr tin cans.
Cooked meat cans will be distributed to needy people via Red Crescent branches.
After the Eid al-Adha period, the Red Crescent will send a can of cooked meat and a DVD that explains the process with a certificate of appreciation to the proxy holders.
Sacrificial animal slaughter by proxy in 30 countries The Red Crescent's favor knows no boundaries, and the meat from Eid al-Adha will be delivered to the poor in every corner of the world this year just like every year.
Stating that the Eid al-Adha organization will be held in 30 countries this year, Dr. Kınık said that activities will be organized as 7 in the Balkans, 11 in Africa, 5 in South Asia and the Caucasus and 4 in the Middle East.
Kınık stated that they foresee a 50% increase in the activities abroad this year in comparison with last year, and said, "The fees for our citizens to give their proxy to the Turkish Red Crescent have been determined as 740 lira at home and 475 lira abroad."
We aim to conduct the slaughter in 5 slaughterhouses of the Meat and Milk Institution in Turkey.
We are conducting these slaughters by meeting Islamic conditions and in accordance with the methods advised by the Directorate of Religious Affairs in Turkey and abroad.
He expressed that, "We will can the meat from Eid al-Adha and deliver it to the dinner tables of needy people over 18 months."
7/24 Donation from 168 Call Centers The citizens who want to experience the peace of conveying their Eid al-Adha worship to real needy people can give their proxy by using Red Crescent donation accounts in banks, Turkish Red Crescent branch offices, Red Crescent Postal Check account in PTT branches, 168 free call centers and the website www.kizilay.org.tr.
An Opportunity of Installment The proxy holders who make their payment via credit card can benefit from the opportunity of installments.
Our citizens abroad who want to give their proxy to the Red Crescent will be able to make a donation by using the donation menu on the Red Crescent website.
In addition, they will be able to pay the proxy fee via international credit card through the Red Crescent's free consultation and donation line with the telephone number 0090 312 458 30 00.
Our citizens will be able to pay the Eid al-Adha proxy fee via Ziraat Bank's Red Crescent account number in Germany.
