He saw the conspiracy in Ergenekon, FETO killed him
Ankara Public Prosecutor's Office is investigating the role of FETO in the death of Special Operation Department Director, Behçet Oktay, whose case was closed saying, "He committed suicide" in 2009.
The primary suspect in the investigation is the former Police Intelligence Department Director, Ramazan Akyürek, who stayed with Oktay in the same lodgings and ordered the wiretapping of Oktay with a fake name saying he is a Hezbollah Terrorist Organization suspect 6 days before he died.
It is claimed that one part of the ammunition confiscated within the scope of the Ergenekon investigation was stolen from the Special Operations Department and buried by a FETO squad, and Oktay was killed because he uncovered this.
It was ciaimed "suicide" for the death of Special Operations Department Director at the time, Bahçet Oktay, who was found to be shot in the head in Ankara on February 25 2009.
However, there were many question marks.
As a result of the legal struggle by his family and family lawyers and the proof put forward by them, a murder investigation was opened 2 years later.
The gun said to be used by left handed Oktay to shoot himself was found in his right hand.
In addition, fractures in his ribs and marks from blows to his body were detected.
The suit for the murder investigation was brought in May, 2012.
Discovered near him when he died and found to have gunshot residue on his hand, Halil Kesici was the only one tried in the murder case.
He was acquitted at the end of the trial.
In jail because of another crime and having said to have been involved in the death of Oktay by sending a letter to the prosecutor's office, Nurhan Önder was sentenced to 6 months in jail for the crime of "taking the blame and deceiving the legal authorities."
THOSE PROSECUTORS SHOULD BE INVESTIGATED
Meanwhile, the prosecutor Hüseyin Yalçın, who said the incident was "suicide", retired while Mustafa Düzgün, who conducted the murder investigation, received a promotion.
Oktay's family wants the autopsy prosecutor, Nihat Yıldırım, to be investigeted together with these prosecutors.
Behçet Oktay's sister Şule Oktay, brother Nezih Oktay and family lawyers made many requests during the trial process.
Saying that it was not possible that Halil Kesici killed specially trained Oktay on his own, the family requested an extension of the investigation.
Saying that the incident was a cover up, the family requested the detection and trial of Hüseyin Yalçın, Behçet Oktay and police department officers who wanted to close the Behçet Oktay Case as a suicide.
While all the requests of the family were rejected, it was revealed that Oktay was wiretapped as a Hezbollah Terrorist Organization member with the fake name "Abdurrahman Doğru" 6 days before he died.
The person who instructed the wiretapping was determined at the time to be Police Intelligence Department Director, Ramazan Akyürek.
Following this development, the Ankara Public Prosecutor's Office, dealing with the Behçet Oktay case again, started to examine the Fetullah Terrorist Organization's (FETO) hand in the murder.
The case brought to the Ankara Heavy Penal Court for the illegal wiretapping of Oktay will start on September 19.
FETO IS CERTAINLY BEHIND THIS
Interviewed by SABAH, the Oktay family is hopeful that the current investigation is conducted.
Family members say that FETO's hand in the murder was whitewashed during the previous investigation and trial.
His sister Şule Oktay said, "In fact this murder happened blatantly."
We could not perceive it.
My elder brother said, 'They will eat me' before he was killed.
I said, 'Who?'
At that time he indicated FETO to me.
I thought that he would be dismissed.
I did not think of death.
FETO is certainly behind this act.
She said, "At that time the management was in their hands."
