Poorly educated, former football player Erdoğan
The thing that spoiled the balance is the winning alliance of the populist Islamists led by poorly educated former football player Erdoğan and the highly educated followers of Fethullah Gülen, a religious entrepreneur on a wide scale, who established more than one thousand schools, tens of university and educational institutes from Texas to Tashkent.
The above-written statement is the translation of a sentence in an article published in Foreign Policy last week.
Western media often publish such articles in which university graduate Erdoğan is evaluated as a poorly educated, former football player and primary school graduate Gülen is evaluated as an entrepreneur with a broad perspective, and Gülen followers are openly praised.
Then, on the other hand, they try to give an explanation with sentences starting with "Because Erdoğan..." in their articles with the theme "Why is Opposition against America and/or the West rising in Turkey?"
It is possible that the analysts, seeing the opposition against the West in Turkey as an emergent situation started during the term of Erdoğan, are unaware of the history of Turkey.
In fact, if the statistics are looked at, the first ten years of Erdoğan's term can be interpreted as a period in which the opposition against the West in Turkey decreased or remained at an average position.
Likewise, good relationships with the European Union and the United States of America continued harmoniously.
There are many reasons to be counted like the facts that Erdoğan criticized Israel with 'one-minute'; the E.U. could not put forward a clear policy over the outbreak of civil war as a result of the Assad government's massacres, and left Turkey alone in the refugee crisis; Some figures like European Parliament President Schulz showed contemptuous behavior as in the expression "Erdoğan is not our interlocutor"; An offend Erdogan competition was held and was won by the London Mayor at the time and now Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs with his poem that includes many unimaginably disgusting swear words; PKK's Syria branch of YPG is glorified in Europe by opening both exhibitions and offices while PKK members that entered from Syria to Turkey became suicide bombers and slaughtered tens of our citizens; US soldiers in Syria wear uniforms with the YPG symbol; its special representative for the struggle against DAESH, Brett McGurk, paid special visits to the YPG; while the opposition groups that don't pose a threat to Turkey, such as the YPG, are left alone, all the intelligence and logistic supports are given to the YPG; Turkey's struggle against DAESH was underestimated and the number of our troops was decreased in Mosul because of Baghdad government oppression and USA support.
Let's say that we forgot the fact that while we lost 247 people as a result of the bloody coup, there was no support for our democracy from our so called allies from E.U. countries and the USA until the failure of the coup was proven; Kerry said that they expect the establishment of "peace and stability in Turkey" and did not emphasize the democracy and the elected government.
How can we forget that when 11 Charlie Hebdo employees were killed in Paris, many leaders around the world including Turkey participated in the protest march but there is no "ally" of the President of Turkey from Western countries that came in spite of the fact that one month has passed from the coup attempt in which 247 people resisting the tanks for the sake of democracy were killed?
What can we say about the fact that lower rank representatives were sent by leaders who came several times or sent higher rank representatives over the matter of refugees?
How can we evaluate the fact that all the E.U. and USA ambassadors paid a get-well visit when the window of the Hurriyet newspaper was broken but they have not paid any solidarity visit to the bombed Turkish Grand National Assembly?
When is remembered is that the E.U sent high ranking representatives and shook hands with the coup leader Sisi within the first two weeks of the coup that took place in Egypt, and Kerry glorified the coup leaders by saying, "democracy is re-established" in his visit after the coup. Is it too abnormal that when the Western countries, abstaining from supporting Turkey in the resistance of democracy, express that they are concerned about Turkish democracy, it is not found to be sincere in Turkey?
In fact, it is sufficient to infuriate Turkish people by even allowing Gülen, who is considered responsible for the coup by 95% of the people, to live freely in the USA.
When we add the background stated above, I think it is clear that the opposition towards the West/USA is not a situation that can be explained only by Erdoğan.
Again, Erdoğan still has not even said that he thinks the USA had an impact on the coup...
