30 thousand Liras pocketed over a 10 year term
President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan's "reduce the interest rate" appeal sets the banks in motion.
It was suggested that banks participate in the campaign stage which Emlak Konut started and which GYODER then participated in.
A suggestion was also made by President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan to drop housing loan interest rates to under 1 percent as they are considered a psychological limit.
13 banks dropped housing loan interest rates to under 1 percent.
It was the public banks that launched the discount rush.
When the previous monthly interest rates, changing between 1.12 and 1.29, are used as a base, consumers who used a 10 year term housing loan will pay less interest of between 15 and 30 billion TL with the latest adjustment.
5 OR 10 YEAR OPTION
So, how much of an advantage will the interest rate reduction provide to those who buy a house?
A person who has a 100 thousand Lira, 10 year loan term, will benefit to the tune of 30 thousand Lira from the drop in interest.
A large majority of housing loan users choose a 5-10 year term payment schedule.
Interest rates are expected to drop more in the coming days.
The interest rate reduction will positively affect sales.
House sales in 2015 were 1 million 289 thousand, increasing by 10.6 percent with respect to the previous year.
Sales are expected to exceed 1.5 million with the cuts in interest rates.
GYODER President Aziz Torun: It should be reduced to less than 9 percent a year
It is an important step for public banks to cut interest rates.
They paid close attention to the appeal by our President and reduced interest rates.
However, this rate should fall to under 9 percent a year.
If this cutting process continues, we are thinking of extending the 0.70 monthly interest campaign that we started for several more months.
Kuzu Group Member of the Board Özen Kuzu: Our campaign may be extended by 3 months
Participation also by the banks in our attempt to bring dynamism to the economy may bring about the prolongation of this historic campaign for at least another 3 to 4 months.
However, loan interest rates should fall below 9 percent on a yearly basis.
It is pleasing to see that every sector is making a sacrifice in the purchase of housing by citizens with a positive mental state just in the housing sector and real market which has not been seen in the course of history.
Polat Holding Chairman of the Board Adnan Polat: We expect full support from the banks
It is a nice move for them to call for an interest rate reduction after the appeal made to the banks from our President.
Apart from that, there are a certain number of steps taken towards the revival of the economy in all sectors.
The campaigns the NGOs make, the decision the Central Bank takes and all the steps taken in this direction are for the country...
All banks should assume responsibility.
We say to them, come, join this mobilization, walk the same path with us and let's revive the economy together, hand in hand.
