New routes with the new Yamaha Tracer 700!
You can do both short local trips at the weekend or go on a cross-continental excursion with the Tracer 700, making your experience a joyful ride with unforgettable memories...
The new Yamaha Tracer 700 is the complete long-haul vehicle that gives the user an emotional and intuitive driving experience while achieving excellence in design and technical terms...
There is a lot of interest in motorcycles in Europe for discovering different worlds, collecting new and unforgettable memories and enjoying the fun of every curve.
Wanting to open the door to this free world and broaden their horizon, and increasing in number, motorcycle enthusiasts are turning towards the reasonable, accessible and exciting models of the Sport Tourer series.
The addictive and new Yamaha Tracer 700 was developed from the very successful MT-07 platform.
Developed by strengthening and revitalizing the existing Sport tourer series, the model met with great interest from the new generation of motorcycle enthusiasts.
Having many impressive features with its brave and original design, the new Tracer 700 brings its roadholding, lightness, rapid and entertaining structure, and joy of comfortable driving together with design and functionality, and raises the Sport Tourer class image to an upper level.
Being in the middleweight Sports Tourer segment and providing miraculous performance with its standard features, the Tracer 700 continues the great success of this segment.
The new Tracer 700 starts an exciting new period in the Sport tourer category with its sports-focused style, long distance performance, dynamic and interesting appearance.
The versatile Tracer 700 is ready to overcome all situations with its torque-rich motor and agile chassis.
This new sportive middleweight motorcycle has many features that uncover the real touring motorcycle potential by adding special improvements specific to the chassis and suspension.
A fuel efficient 689 cc twin cylinder engine with a high capacity 17-liter fuel tank enable the Tracer 700 to cover long distances between petrol stations.
The compact and light chassis of the new Tracer 700 was developed from the highly acclaimed MT-07 platform.
This minimalist design gained its reputation thanks to its agile driving and rapid response features.
A leader in its class it's ready to excite the rider at every curve with its 196 kg weight.
Moreover, it can be transformed into a seriously long distance touring motorcycle by adding the Original Yamaha accessories.
The color alternatives that make the design more attractive are Radical Red, Tech Black, Yamaha Blue...
Ensuring that motorcycle enthusiasts return to the market, this exciting new model connects its users much more to the road.
With the New Tracer 700, on the market in Turkey as of August, you can both make for the curvy roads of the Mediterranean Sea and Black Sea, and experience exciting moments on the routes of Europe or Africa, full of adventure and adrenaline.
