Dağkapı spirit after Yenikapı
The AK Party will make a group visit to Diyarbakır, Van and Mardin with a large delegation consisting of businessmen, artists, sportsmen and opinion leaders to build "heart bridges" with the citizens in the region at the beginning of September.
The AK Party is preparing to bring the "Yenikapı spirit", to Diyarbakır which was created by the democracy watches in theh wake of the bloody coup attempt by the FETO/PDY sympathizer junta.
CHP and MHP provincial heads will also be invited to the aid campaign to be organized in Eastern and Southeastern Anatolian regions before Eid al-Adha.
Bringing a message of "the State and nation are always with you" to the people of the region, the AK Party will provide aid to poor families and those in need.
In the last Central Executive Board meeting of the AK Party, the Heart Bridge Project, which was organized during Ramadan for the first time, was approved.
In the meeting, during which the positive results of the project were evaluated for the families affected by terrorism and families in need, especially young people and children in the region, it was decided to continue the Heart Bridge also during Eid al-Adha.
The works started under the chairmanship of Mehmet Müezzinoğlu, Vice President, Chairman of Civil Society Public Relations.
According to this, 12 provinces in the East and Southeast will be gathered in Diyarbakır, Mardin and Van.
Meetings will be held before the festival in these 3 provinces to be used as centers.
Businessmen, artists, sportsmen and opinion leaders will also participate in the activities.
In these meetings, the organization of aid and works will be handled.
In Eid al-Adha, the delegations consisting of famous people will deliver aid to the citizens in person.
A holiday allowance for the festival will be given to young people and children, their school needs will be met in this way as schools will be opened after the festival.
Eid al-Adha meat will be delivered to the needy.
After July 15, the national unity atmosphere, created between the AK Party, CHP and MHP against the coup, will also be reflected in this project.
Provincial heads of CHP and MHP in the 12 provinces within the project will also be invited.
It will be ensured that the aid activities will be conducted by 3 parties together.
It is thought that HDP will not be invited to the activities in Yenikapı.
