The head of the Department of Industrial Coordination of the National Development and Reform Commission said that iron and steel overcapacity is now a global problem.
China's capacity utilization in recent years is higher than the global average, but also higher than that of the United States and Europe and other countries and regions.
China has taken resolute and effective measures to resolve excess capacity, and the results are gradually emerging.
The official pointed out that the CPC Central Committee and State Council should attach great importance to the global problem of iron and steel overcapacity.
All departments and regions should actively implement the deployment of the State Council, earnestly carry out the work, and reduce crude steel production capacity by 45 million tons this year.
From China's national conditions, China does not encourage steel exports. On the contrary, it also takes a series of practical measures to control steel exports.
The person in charge stressed that the international trade of iron and steel products is essentially a market behavior and an independent choice from the requirement of importing countries and after considering the product cost and other factors.
The implementation of trade protection measures does not help to fundamentally solve the global steel industry development issues. On the contrary, it will only cause further impact on the international trade order.
When it comes to debt, the person in charge stressed that the resolution of the debt problem is to properly handle the important issues that need proper handling.
As the iron and steel enterprises are large-scale and involve a wide range of enterprises, the debt relationship is complex. It may lead to regional risks if disposed of improperly.
According to the person in charge, in recent years, with the economic downward pressure to increase, the total social demand gradually weakened, part of the industry capacity utilization decreased and enterprise production and management difficulties increased.
Some enterprises do not meet the changes in the market environment and the production and management is difficult to sustain or even on the brink of collapse. But restrained by some institutional factors, they become "zombie enterprises" due to many obstacles to the market.
The existence of these companies distorted market signal, reduced the elements resources use efficiency, increased the cost of social management, thereby hindering the establishment of market environment with fair competition.
The main reason for the loss is the same as the dilemma faced by the global steel industry - weak market demand and low utilization rate.
China mainly adopts the market mechanism, economic means and the rule of law. The government is mainly to do the work of disclosing the ins and outs to workers and social stability, to ensure fair and equitable market order.
The person in charge stressed that the next step is to do a good job to ensure overcapacity cutting and ensuring the objective of resolving 100 million tons-150 million tons of crude steel production capacity within five years.
