In the afternoon of the 10th day of the month, the appearance of Chinese tourist police in the Red Square in Moscow immediately drew people's attention. Chinese tourists waved with surprise, and the local people and foreign tourists cannot help but to stop looking back.
On the same day, China's first professional travel police team - members of Tourism Police Detachment, Sanya City, Hainan Province Public Security Bureau came to the Red Square in Moscow, and communicated with the local police on duty.
Moscow travel police are divided into three groups for duty patrol in the Red Square, Nicolieski pedestrian street and Gu Mu Department Store. The Chinese tourist police also followed for study. The whole process lasted more than an hour.
Female police officer Liu Xinie is 20-plus years old, proficient in English and Spanish. She just joined the tourism police team last year.
He carefully observed every word and action of the Russian counterparts and communicated with her from time to time.
When he saw Spanish tourists come for consultation, the Moscow travel police explained to him with fluent Spanish, which impressed Wang Bing.
"Every Moscow travel policeman master foreign language, and some even can speak more than two languages, which impressed us a lot."
"Hainan, as an international tourist island, is gradually paying attention to attract international tourists. We hope to improve their ability to match the status of international tourism island."
On the current day before the study, the Chinese tourist police also went to the brigade station of Moscow city police to communicate with their Russian counterparts.
"I often deal with Chinese tourists and I am very happen to see them travel to Russia."
"Their usual questions are: where is xxx, for example, where is a monument, how to rent a taxi and how to return to the hotel."
Lei Sakov, the brigade captain of Moscow city police said that in recent years, Moscow's urban environment and tourism ambience have become better and better, attracting more and more foreign tourists.
In order to meet the needs of tourism development, it set up a tourist police team in July 2014, responsible for patrol in the major scenic spots, thus helping and diverting the tourists.
At present, all Moscow tourist policemen are proficient in English and some also master Spanish and German.
The police brigade divided them into nine groups according to their foreign language levels. They have two classes per week, learn self-defense moves, laws and regulations and foreign languages.
"At present, there are two tourist police beginning to learn Chinese and they can speak fluently. We have to continue to improve their Chinese level," Lysakov said.
Lysakov told reporters that the Moscow Tourism Police since its inception, have accumulated a certain amount of experience and hoped to inspire counterparts in Sanya.
He believes that the cooperation between the Russian and Chinese police departments will enhance the security sense of their citizens to each other's national tourism.
"The recruiting, police mode and equipment of Moscow tour police officers and their excellent interactions with visitors have brought us a lot of inspiration." Chen Xiaokun said.
