Chinanews journalist found that there are at least nine provinces and cities issuing rules for the implementation of residence permit, including Hebei, Jilin, Tianjin, Jiangxi, Sichuan, Hainan, Gansu, Fujian and Beijing, etc.
For the conditions of applying for residence permit, the above regions generally said that the applicants need to live more than six months and meet one of these three requirements: having legitimate and stable employment, having legal and stable residence and continuous study.
Chinanews journalist noted that in the aspect of residence permit providing treatment, the "gold content" is different in various cities. Compared with the national provisions, some areas have provided more public services and conveniences.
These areas have increased the conveniences of children to attend college entrance examination in the local place while meeting the related requirement.
In addition, it is clearly proposed by Beijing and other places that they will gradually expand the scope of public services and convenience, and regularly release to the community.
For example, Fujian proposed to announce the public services and convenience of residence permit holders to the public at least every 3 years
"Residence Permit Provisional Regulations" provides that, for those in line with the residence permit conditions, the public security organs shall issue a residence permit within 15 days from the date of acceptance.
For the time limit, most of the region hold the same opinion with the national version. That is, to release the permit within 15 days.
Hebei clearly stipulates that for applicants who meet the conditions of application and have complete application documents, the residence police station shall issue a residence permit within 3 working days from the date of acceptance.
Jiangxi clearly stipulates that for applicants who meet the conditions of application and have complete application documents, the public security shall issue a residence permit within 5 working days from the date of acceptance.
In accordance with the "residence permit provisional regulations", the above cities stipulate clearly that the cost of certificate production shall be exempted in case of initial application of residence permit.
For example, Sichuan required the local police stations or commissioned community service agencies shall strictly enforce the approved fees and charges standard and resolutely prohibit over-range, over-standard fees or ride fees.
