They were inspired by Bordum and made a 'model village' in Sivas
Under the Gölova district of SİVAS, Canköy was made a 'model village' by the District governorship and a benefactor businessman.
In the village where the streets were asphalted and paving stones were laid on the pavements, all the houses were painted in blue and white colors, taking the Bodrum District of Muğla as a model.
Gölova District Governorship prepared a model village project to improve the image and quality of life of the villages under the district.
In this context, the model village was selected as Canköy, which is 12 km from the district center and has 66 dwellings.
Village roads, in which infrastructure and superstructure services were increased, were asphalted and its pavements were covered with paving stones.
The village houses, having many different color tones, were painted with the support of the businessman Selahattin Ayan who is the owner of Pelit Pastry Shops.
All the village took the form of buildings painted with white and blue colors.
BODRUM WAS TAKEN AS A MODEL
Giving information about the work, Gölova District Governor, İsa Erat, stated that they prepared this project to put their signature under works that create a role model for other villages and said, "A more modern view of the village and the color unity of all the houses are one part of our project."
While starting this project, we searched for a place to take as a model.
When we went to Bodrum, the view of the houses painted white with blue windows came to our attention.
We wanted to take Bodrum as a model because of the white color's cleanliness and its positive effect on the people.
We performed our work and got all the houses in Canköy painted in white and blue colors.
This work happened with cooperation from the state and a benefactor.
The project cost around 200 thousand lira.
With this work, Canköy in Sivas looks like a little Bodrum.
We want to continue this kind of work with our budget and the support of our businessmen.
66-year-old Abdullah Macit, Canköy president, said that the village gained a fresh new look with the support of the District Governorship.
Macit stated that being a model village pleased both them and the village people very much, and thanked everyone who contributed their efforts.
