"The investments we made are a sign of the trust we place in Turkey"
Talking at a meeting in İstanbul, Chairman of the Executive Board in Ford Otomotiv, Ali Koç, said, "the 30 billion TL investment we made in the last 5 years is a sign of the trust we put in the future of our country."
The Vice Chairman of the Executive Board in Koç Holding and the Chairman of the Executive Board in Ford Otomotiv, Ali Koç, and a large number of managers in foreign capital companies came together in the meeting under the theme "Those who trust in Turkey, those who produce in Turkey", which was organized by the İstanbul Chamber Of Industry (ISO).
Speaking at the meeting, Ali Koç said, "We, together with our partners, express our belief and trust in our country not only in an oral way but we also offer our support through our investments and actions."
The 30 billion TL investment we made in the last 5 years is a sign of the trust we put in the future of our country.
The indispensable aspects of Turkey to attract more foreign investment are a reliable and fair law system, a democracy of international standards, a skilled workforce and R&D, innovation, entrepreneurship and an ecosystem which encourages added value.
Our government offered the most comprehensive incentives of our Republic's history to our industrialists in recent years.
He added, "I believe that we will be able to start the new 'Investment Action' that we need with these incentives and integrated strategies."
Chairman of the Board and CEO in Siemens Industry and Trade Turkey, Hüseyin Gelis, said, "No issue is the problem of just one country anymore, we know this as global players."
We came to Turkey with a long term view.
Our problems will be solved as long as we are in unity and solidarity.
We were able to bring something that could not happen in Turkey in the last 160 years.
We will continue to be present in these areas in Turkey.
He said, "We will certainly establish factories but our horizon should be open in this area."
Stating that Turkey is one of 10 countries as a priority for them, Shell Turkey President, Ahmet Erdem, said, "Turkey is one of 10 countries that are a priority for Shell."
We believe in the potential and future of Turkey.
We made investments in many areas especially in energy, and we are continuing to do so.
We thank our President, Prime Minister and Ministers for their work that supports international investors.
Reassuring work is done for international investors.
He said, "This is in the direction of increasing the competitive power of our country."
Sandoz/Novartis Turkey and Middle East Region Director Dr. Altan Demirdere, "Our Global CEO was about to come to Turkey on August 10."
However, the trip was postponed.
We opposed this.
Because the CEO's arrival was very important.
They made some requests such as a bulletproof car and guards.
Then, when he came here, he saw that everything is normal.
He left the guards and car, and returned to his country happily.
Investment in a country is like a marriage.
Firstly, a promise is made, then the engagement is done if everything goes smoothly and you get married by making a long term plan.
We are married to Turkey and we do not have any intention to get divorced.
