We returned from the brink of the abyss!
The Prime Minister, Binali Yıldırım, addressed the businessmen by participating by teleconference in the consultation meeting with the theme "Those who trust in Turkey, those who produce in Turkey", which was organized in the Swiss Hotel by the İstanbul Chamber of Commerce.
Stating that the industrial sector is the sector that will ensure Turkey's comparative advantage, Prime Minister Yıldırım said, "In the industrial sector, we should avoid missing the process of transition into 'Industry 4.0.'"
He said, "If we give importance to becoming high in added value and a locomotive for our country and reach the 2023 targets, we need to think about the industrial revolution in the informatics and technology revolution, and achieve it."
Adding that Turkey returned from the brink of an abyss on the night of July 15, Prime Minister Yıldırım said, "If those who intended to kill the future of our country, those who tried to demolish its democracy, the rascals who did not stop from bombing our Veteran Assembly, had been successful, we would be talking about a different Turkey today."
We would be talking about a Turkey, whose management was taken by the coup, whose national will was removed and which dropped from the world of developing countries league into the 3rd world countries.
He said, "Thanks to God, we expelled this calamity with our nation's determination, our Chief Commander and esteemed President, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan's sagacity, and our Government's determination."
Prime Minister Yıldırım continued as follows: "We will immediately get over the impact of this incident and look ahead."
It is never, ever proper that we live with coups.
We have many assertive targets ahead.
This coup attempt did not shake the Turkish economy.
Those who expected chaos and crisis were mistaken again.
Today both our democracy and economy are sound and on their feet.
Our banking sector, finance sector are continuing to work in a healthy way.
It seems that the foreign trade deficit decreased by 25 percent in 2015.
While the ratio of current deficit to national income was 5.8 percent in 2014, this ratio fell to 4.5 in 2015.
We are aiming to drop it to 4 by the end of the year.
We will never change our tight stance on public finance.
Turkey's 2016 budget is higher than the national income of 130 countries.
We decreased the ratio of the budget deficit to national income, which was over 11 percent, to the level of 1.3 percent in 2015 and we are struggling to maintain these ratios.
With regard to public debt, we are in a better situation than the EU and many countries in the world.
Our banking and finance sectors are continuing their work on a stable base.
He added, "Our Central Bank did not need to add foreign currency to the market in spite of July 15 and a decrease in our reserves is out of the question, we have a gross reserve of over 121 billion dollars."
Explaining that they will provide all kinds of conveniences for the development of the economy, increasing production and creating new employment areas, Prime Minister Yıldırım said, "In addition, we are issuing comprehensive regulations to get rid of your retrospective debts."
We realized many regulations from the remission of stock to the installment of cash surplus and unpaid tax debts by again introducing new conveniences, and we are continuing to realize.
He said, "As long as you continue to produce for the country and trust in your country, your government will continue to remove the obstacles for you one by one."
