Turkey will not break loose from the West, will not give up on the European Union
Mehmet Şimşek: Turkey will not break loose from the West, will not give up on the European Union
The Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Şimşek, the Minister of Science, Industry and Technology, Faruk Özlü, and the Minister of Economy, Nihat Zeybekçi, participated in the meeting with the theme "Those who trust in Turkey, those who produce in Turkey", which is organized by the İstanbul Chamber of Commerce (ISO).
Speaking in the meeting, the Minister of Science, Industry and Economy, Faruk Özlü, said, "I think many favorable results emerged on the night of July 15 and from the developments experienced afterwards."
The most important one is certainly the spirit of unity and solidarity which the whole of Turkey is now feeling deeply.
The July 15 process showed the strong dynamics the Turkish economy has and to what level society has adopted democracy.
He said, "It is clear that the following process will be easier and more rapid for a society that has reached this level of economy and democracy."
"TURKEY NEEDS TO GET RID OF THIS DISTRESS"
Going up to the rostrum after Faruk Özlü and saying that they have difficulty in explaining the July 15 coup attempt to the world, the Minister of Economy, Nihat Zeybekçi, stated that they declared mobilization in this matter as a government.
Zeybekçi mentioned the reduction of interest initiated by the banks, and said, "If 63.4% of the profit of my real sector's first five hundred goes to interest, we should drop everything and focus on this matter."
For this reason, as a matter of fact, our President talks about this matter repeatedly.
Turkey needs to get rid of this distress with the unity and solidarity that politics has shown after the July 15 civil Turkish democracy revolution with its real sector, banking system, government, and politics.
We welcome the recent developments here.
He said, "We hope that we as the management of the economy, will support this competition by the banks down to 0.9 and 0.8 per month, which started with our President's incentive, and realize its sustainability, continuity."
"WE WILL PUT THE GREEN PASSPORT UNDER OUR EXPORTER'S ORDER"
Saying, "In the following period we will go the long way around the world", Nihat Zeybekçi stated, "We won't leave a single country unvisited and we won't leave any stone unturned under the leadership of our President, Prime Minister."
There is nobody we won't contact to increase our trade.
He explained, "We will never, ever blink; we won't lose the birds in our hands while going after the bird on the branch."
Zeybekçi stated that a green passport will be given to exporters later on as well, and added, "A law for one of the recent decisions was issued, and we finished its regulation in the ministry of economy; we will put the privileged green passport which represents our country under the order of our exporters with around 17 or 20 thousand exporters among the exporters in the first round."
"THOSE WHO COMMITTED THE COUP ATTEMPT SHOULD BE CLEARED FROM THE STATE"
Mentioning the July 15 coup attempt and the state of emergency declared afterwards, the Deputy Prime Minister, Mehmet Şimşek, described the coup attempt as a 'nightmare' and said, "However, it is now behind us, we should look ahead from now on."
Stating that the state of emergency was declared because of two reasons, Şimşek said, "Surely those who were starting an insurrection and those who committed the coup attempt should be cleared from the state and this process is advancing; however, the more important thing is that serious administrative reform is needed in order not to face these kinds of coup attempts."
Therefore the State of Emergency was declared as an atmosphere needed for these administrative reforms and many serious structural reforms have been done up until now.
He said, "Surely we acted and we will act within the democratic principles and state of law while doing all this."
Expressing that life has returned to normal in many areas, Şimşek stressed that there is no reason to worry for the companies and individuals that have not been involved in the financing of terrorism.
Mentioning that Turkey's democracy got stronger, Şimşek said, "In my opinion, the foundations of Turkey's democracy got stronger; because when you look at the root of the problems in the recent past, you will certainly see that this gang of betrayers had a hand in the matter."
He said, "Therefore, the clearing of this terrorist organization from the state, and the closing of this period in Turkey will strengthen Turkey's democracy."
Explaining that economic foundations are strong and they returned to their structural reform agenda without losing any time, Şimşek said, "Turkey returned to its main agenda, there are advances in the structural reforms."
As a matter of fact, structural reforms are our sine qua non because populism and protectionism are rising around the world.
He said, "Turkey can be prepared for the future only by making reforms."
Finally stressing that Turkey will not break loose from the West, Şimşek said, "Turkey may have a clash of ideas with our western allies, friends from time to time but Turkey will not break loose from the West, it will not give up on the European Union."
