Wealth fund, audit of which is discussed, is in the committee
Expected to rank among the biggest funds in the world, Turkey's Wealth fund was removed from the bag bill in a quiet and retiring way upon the objections.
It was decided that the fund would be discussed again because of the lack of an audit mechanism, but it was discussed in the committee without any amendment.
Evaluating the bill of law about Turkey's Wealth Fund brought by AKP to sozcu.com.tr, CHP Deputy and Planning Budget Committee member, Utku Çakırözer, said, "We are certainly against keeping this structure, which will consist of public assets, obligatory retirement deductions from laborers and workers and the unemployment fund to be collected for the unemployed, out of the Constitutional audit mechanisms."
Prepared by the government to provide long-term funds for investments and projects, Turkey's Wealth Fund bill of law was removed on Tuesday from the bag bill with the opinion of the opposition that it should be discussed separately.
However, AKP brought the bill to the Planning and Budget Committee in the same form.
Utku Çakırözer, CHP member of the TBMM Planning and Budget Commission and Eskişehir Deputy, talked to sozcu.com.tr about the worries and concerns of CHP with regard to the Wealth Fund bill of law.
Çakırözer said, "When the establishment of this fund came to the Planning and Budget Committee in the bag bill, our former Minister of Finance at the head of the CHP delegation, Zekeriya Temizel, expressed our worries and concerns and suggested the removal of it from the bag bill and detailed discussion of it separately."
The government, accepting our opinion, withdrew the bill.
The bill came to the committee in the same form yesterday.
He said, "The government seems to be insistent on passing this from the Assembly within a week."
Stating that there should be a consensus for passing the Wealth Fund law, Çakırözer said, "Our biggest concern for this bill is irregularity."
He explained, "Public assets, obligatory retirement deductions from laborers and workers and the incomes to be created from the unemployment fund collected for the unemployed, and incomes to be obtained from privatization are handed over in an unlawful way to a structure which is outside of the Assembly and Court of Account's audit and does not have any responsibility."
Stating that countries like Russia, China, and Gulf countries, where these kinds of funds are established, have petroleum income and a trade surplus, and the fund is financed in this way, Çakırözer said, "However, we have a savings gap."
For this reason, the fund will consist of public sources, in other words, people's money.
It is planned that money will be transferred to the total of 100 billion to the unemployment fund, 100 billion from the individual retirement fund that was made obligatory for employees, and 50 billion from privatizations.
He said, "In other words, this fund, to be all created by the money of the people, should certainly be under public auditing and this money should not be spent irresponsibly."
Stressing that it is unacceptable that a fund, in which public sources are collected and public assets are supplied as collateral in incurring debt, is outside of the Assembly's audit, Çakırözer talked about his worries and concerns with regard to the Wealth Fund bill of law as follows:
Works and procedures for the collecting and spending of such a big public asset and providing it as collateral cannot be glossed over with audits only from independent auditing firms.
There should certainly be public auditing and a transparent structure.
In the bill of law, there is no provision for the Wealth Fund's audit by the institutions and transparency.
A restriction was not placed on how many resources will be transferred.
No one will be able to call to account how the fund is used.
Financing of big projects is shown as a reason for the aim of the fund.
Therefore, there is no need to establish an unchecked fund outside of the budget.
Why don't you include it in the budget?
Therefore the question, "Why does it escape from an audit by the Court of Accounts and Assembly?", naturally comes to mind.
Stating that they are not against the transfer of the money collected in the Wealth Fund to investments, but they are against the fact that it is done with a nontransparent mechanism that does not give an account, Çakırözer continued as follows: "It can be discussed whether there is a need for such a fund."
However, if the government is insistent on this, then we have to ensure that the international standards, which are valid in the countries where these kinds of investment funds are established, will be valid also in Turkey.
It should certainly be structured in a way that an auditing and responsibility mechanism is brought.
It should be established in a way that there won't be any blemish, and it will give an account to the citizens for their own money down to the last kurus.
Underlining that they are certainly against the Wealth Fund bill of law in the form that it came to the committee, Çakırözer said, "We are glad that AKP listens to our criticisms in the Assembly, especially after the July 15 coup attempt."
We hope that AKP will listen to our constructive criticisms also in this bill of law.
We are against unlawful use, transfer of the national assets, and irresponsibility of those who use them and the lack of public auditing.
He said, "The desired Wealth Fund may be beneficial only if these concerns are eliminated."
It was reported that work has been done to ensure a consensus between AKP and the opposition on the coming bill of law.
