New tradition: rural community and sports festival in Kulciems.
On Saturday, a community and sports festival in Kulciems gathered people for the first time.
After ten years of the Lake Festival, it was decided to discontinue that tradition.
A new page has thus been opened.
The day starts with a sports contest.
This time people did not compete in traditional disciplines and they were not to be taken seriously, because, for example, darts had to be thrown at a target placed on the ground, there was a flying boot thrown from the left hand, and no Olympic Games have ever seen something called "balling".
However, each participant was given a chance to show his or her strength, courage, dexterity and wittiness.
After the sports games everyone gathered near an open-air stage where the festival began.
At the same time, a "children's corner" was also available for activities and children could jump around in inflatable structures and have their faces painted in a make-up room.
Another novelty, which might become a tradition, was the parade of vehicles, where both tractors and motorcycles took part.
The Kulciems county local government director Inga Kadike-Skadina took the floor to wish everybody a nice rest and good weather, although there was some rain but not as heavy as to disturb the celebration.
The festival continued with congratulation of the youngest residents of Kulciems.
It is really nice that the county now has five young girls and one boy more.
Drama groups from Engure region visited Kulciems residents with their performances: the audience really loved the performances of the senior dance group "Rudens ritmi" (Autumn Rhythms), various folk dance performers "Redas" and youth dancers "Zelta perles" (Golden Pearls).
And it is not a big deal that a few feet slipped on the wet stage.
Of course, the popular duo of actors, Janis Jarans and Dainis Porgans, who again transformed into Mildina Nabina and Skaidrite Kranina, as well as the exuberant ladies from Berzciems, fishermen's house Dieninas all provided a particular enjoyment for the local residents and guests.
The music band "Brugis" took care about the music in the ball.
