Due to repair works, a neighbor's ceiling crumbles and makes him leave home.
The LTV program The 4th Studio was addressed by Dmitrijs Saidjasevs, whose neighbor had started an overhaul in his apartment and since then Dmitrijs' apartment ceiling's plaster started to crumble and fall down, so he wasn't sure whether it was safe to stay there.
The problem is that my neighbors carried out unauthorized construction and the ceiling in my apartment is now damaged.
Then I informed the Riga Construction Board, my building manager and other organizations.
The Construction Board answered that they are not an emergency service and they do not have any experts.
"The apartment owner is supposed to go to the Association of Civil Engineers of Latvia and there will be an expert," Dmitrijs tells.
The invited expert came, made a record of the situation and concluded that the overhead cover is in unsatisfactory condition.
But a month has passed since Dimitrijs' first application to the Construction Board and by the beginning of this week no one was able to answer, whether it is dangerous to stay in the apartment.
They said, at the Construction Board: that is the law, if you are not satisfied, write to everyone in a row.
"Then I wrote to the Riga City Council but they referred the case to the building manager, then the building manager referred it back to the Construction Board and now we're in a dead-end," Dmitrijs tells.
After considering the pile of documents it is clear that the construction works have been suspended even, though every now and then one can hear that somebody is working there.
An expert evaluation must be carried out within two months and the owner of the apartment under repair must improve the situation within six months.
The external expert has developed his opinion, but the Construction Board considers it to be incomplete and superficial.
The expert has not indicated, whether the metal grid that is integrated in the bearing structure has been affected, therefore it is not certain whether the owner of the apartment below is really in danger.
"For that reason we have requested additional explanation from the expert," the Riga City Council Construction Board representative Ilze Zuka tells.
Regardless of the prohibition on any repair works in the upper apartment, one can still hear that the construction goes on.
Unwarranted construction without a construction permit can be fined with a penalty from 70 to 700 euro, but in this particular case the penalty might be more severe.
While the expert is preparing his opinion, the Construction Board has made a decision that both apartments cannot be used: both the one where the construction works take place and Dmitrijs'.
"This is an unprecedented case in the Construction Board's practice, when in such a way due to ignorance or simply unwillingness the residents probably have posed a threat not only to their property, but also to the owner living beneath and therefore this owner cannot use his property," the representative of the Construction Board tells.
Now Dmitrijs has to look for another place to live: with his relatives, friends, a hotel or to rent another apartment.
Or, Dmitrijs can try to recover the losses from the neighbor in civil proceedings, which may take a lot of time.
Due to unwarranted construction it is prohibited now to enter both apartments until a construction engineer provides his opinion, which could last up to three weeks.
The owner of the flat under repair will be liable to reimburse for the losses.
The owner is also facing up to six months in prison, because he has not taken into account the warning of the Construction Board.
