Transformation of former Kemeri spa resort into five star hotel will cost 22 million euros.
A transformation of the former Kemeri spa resort into a five star festival "Park Hotel Kemeri" will cost 22 million euros, the manager of the prospective hotel and representative of limited-liability company Park Hotel Kemeri, Gita Zelve, told LETA.
The development of a hotel is the first stage of the former resort's reconstruction project in Kemeri.
The second stage will involve wellness clinics, intended to be opened in 2022, while opening of the hotel is scheduled for 2018.
Zelve notes that accurate expenses for developing the clinic are not known yet.
But she points out that it will be located in the building of the former Kemeri resort health center whose floor area is about 12,000 square meters .
The clinic will be situated on three floors.
Park Hotel Kemeri and the clinic project is owned by the international foundation G Capital Europe, which invests in European assets.
G Capital Europe belongs to several investors who invest their money in this foundation, Zelve indicates.
According to George Jones, Executive Director of "G Capital Europe", it is planned to invest 12 to 15 million euros in setting up the health center in the former resort, with the total investment exceeding 30 million euros.
As reported, the Jurmala City Council plans to attract 14.5 million euros with three to four million euros co-funding for the recovery of more than 42 hectares of historic park area, reconstruction of access roads and street sections, construction of an interactive nature tourism object, landscaping and amenities, as well as construction of car parking lots in Emils Darzins Street which altogether will promote the socioeconomic development of Jurmala and increase the number of tourists.
The designing phase is intended to take place until mid-2017, while construction and area development works are to start next autumn.
As reported, it is planned to develop a five-star hotel Park Hotel Kemeri and wellness clinics at the historical health resort complex Kemeri.
Nevertheless, the reconstruction kept being postponed.
It was stated in the annual report of 2010 that Ominasis maintained regular communication with the hotel group Kempinski, which continues providing routine technical supervision at the Kemeri resort and that in 2011 the "reconstruction of the new hotel Kemeri would be finished", immediately followed by preparations for opening the Kempinski's chain hotel.
In October 2014, Park Hotel Kemeri expressed willingness to purchase a group of properties of the Kemeri health resort, owned by the insolvent Omnasis Latvia, in auction, but one month later the auction was declared invalid, because the winner did not pay for the purchase at the agreed time.
The price was determined according to the initial price of the invalid auction, at 2.86 million euros.
As LETA was informed by a City Council representative Ieva Aile, the municipality has confirmed by signing a protocol that it is going to improve the adjacent infrastructure: restore the historic Kemeri park, create an interactive nature tourism object, repair roads and car parking lots, with co-financing from the European Union structural funds.
