Minister: increase of the SRS director general's salary to be discussed next week.
The Minister for Finance, Dana Reizniece-Ozola (Union of Greens and Farmers (UGF)) plans to talk with Prime Minister Maris Kucinskis (UGF) and the government coalition partners next week about an increase of salary for Director General of the State Revenue Service (SRS).
On Friday, Reizniece-Ozola told journalists that the issue of salary increase for Director General of the SRS must be solved urgently, in order to make this position more attractive to prospective candidates in the new round of competition.
Next week they are also going to discuss changes in the competition charter.
The minister also highlighted that she has no particular candidate in mind for the job.
At the same time Reizniece-Ozola stated that the State Environment Service head Inga Kolegova would have been a good Director General of the SRS.
Regarding the current Acting Head of the SRS, Dace Peleka, who expressed her readiness to run for this position, the minister repeatedly said that the new Director General of the SRS should have an "impartial perspective" and he or she should not come from within SRS's ranks.
She also emphasized that she is waiting for the Parliament to return from vacation so that amendments to the laws required for the SRS reorganization could be carried out.
The BNS news agency already informed that the State Environment Service head Inga Kolegova has submitted an application whereby she withdraws her candidacy for the position of Director General of the SRS.
She explained in her application that it is not an easy choice but during the last two weeks her family has experienced serious emotional pressure although they have not done anything illegal.
Kolegova also indicated that the discussions around her candidacy have intensified the antagonism between the parties of the ruling coalition, which is quite unfortunate.
As reported, the previous Director General of the SRS, Inara Petersone, stepped down from her position at the end of June.
