Turnover of canned food manufacturer Zila laguna shrank by 33.8% last year.
The turnover of the canned food manufacturer "Zila laguna" was 4.202 million euros last year, which is by 33.8% less than the year before; meanwhile, the company's losses decreased 5.7 times, down to 904.7 thousand euros, its annual financial report, published in the Lursoft data base reveals.
The company's management report indicates that in 2015 the company operated at loss that was caused by several reasons, including constant lack of liquid assets - due to Unicredit Bank leaving the Baltic market and discontinuing the effective credit line, thus leaving Zila laguna with signed contracts without the possibility to fulfill them.
Therefore, the company did not have sufficient means to purchase cheaper raw materials in bulk at volume discount rates.
As the bank was leaving the Latvian market, it also became impossible for the company to implement European Union Structural Funds' supported projects that would allow buying new equipment for the plant and modernize the infrastructure.
The company's financial indicators were adversely affected also by increased prices of raw material and unwillingness of customers to pay more for the company's products.
"Only in the second part of July 2016, customers accepted price changes and became willing to buy them at the new, higher prices," the company's management points out.
In 2015, Zila laguna started negotiations with prospective investors, including an evaluation of the company's movable and immovable property.
The investors have already visited the company's largest creditor Unicredit Leasing and the parties have learned about and discussed the prospective investment plans.
At the same time, the company's business and further development were positively affected by the implementation of restructuring and optimization plans started in 2014 and 2015.
This plan included improvement and optimization of the industrial processes permitting to increase the production output and capacity.
"Several units of equipment were purchased thus ensuring higher output rate," the company's management indicated.
The management of Zila laguna highlights that the equipment purchase will enable the company's factory in year 2016 to fulfil orders that were previously impossible.
The first batch of production made on this equipment will be ready for delivery in August.
Since letters of intent on sales of products have been already signed, all manufactured products will be sold according to the letters of intent.
The new product will increase turnover by approximately 300 thousand euros per month," the company's management says.
In August 2016, the company also plans to sign a cooperation contract for deliveries of processed fish products to Iraq.
In 2016, "Zila laguna" has shipped its first experimental container of goods to Israel, expanded sales in Cyprus, and this September is going to sign a cooperation agreement with a new supermarket chain in the USA.
As a result of all aforesaid activities, the company hopes to increase its turnover.
In 2014, Zila laguna operated with a turnover of 6.347 million euros and incurred losses of 5.113 million euros.
Zila laguna was established in 1997 and its equity capital is 1.156 million euros.
The company belongs to two Latvian nationals, Mihails Kaidanovs (89.11%) and Igors Sirsons (10.89%).
