Samoilovs: Lost game means that I have underperformed.
Beach volleyball players Aleksandrs Samoilovs and Janis Smedins had hoped for a medal at the Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games, however, they missed on their goal and, consequently, once you're out of the tournament, it does not matter anymore where to finish the competition, Samoilovs told after leaving the competition.
This Thursday, one of the world's strongest beach volleyball pairs lost the game against the Brazilians Evandro Goncalves Oliveira and Pedro Solberg Salgado in the subgroup tournament's concluding and decisive match scoring 1-2 (16-21, 22-20, 7-15) thus finishing their participation in the most important sports forum of the quadrennium.
In three pool play matches the Latvian athletes got one victory but two other pairs had the same ratio.
The mutual small-score ratio was considered further, which was the most adverse for the Latvian pair after the apparent loss suffered in this match.
"We were winning in the 1st set, but after reaching 16-15 we remained at the score of 16," Smedins commented on the game's progress.
I don't even know how we managed not to grow the score in the remaining time of the set.
This was just a bad example.
In the 1st set everything was fine and we managed to break up the game at the set's ending, besides it had to be a firm foundation for the 3rd set .
We started it similarly, but after we switched sides, the result was going up only for one team.
We made too many mistakes in attacking.
All pool play teams were similar, there were three sets in almost all matches therefore small-scale points were important.
"We had to play more similar rather than repeatedly losing 3-4 points in a row," the athlete told.
We knew that Evandro can serve.
"We managed it in the 1st set, but in the 2nd set we lost 1-2 points, while in the 3rd set with +4 their game was on the way up," Smedins recalled.
We tried to show our best game.
At some moments we succeeded and at some we didn't.
I did not look at the summary assessment of the situation before the match, but I knew that we had to have more small-scale points.
"The loss means means that I have underperformed", Samoilovs concluded.
We expected a good serve from Evandro and we handled it quite well during the first two sets, but in the third one his serve opened up and it was hard to counter-attack.
I personally made a lot of mistakes when returning Pedro's serves, but I had to somehow manage.
Samoilovs told that, unlike in the previous match, today the athletes were not as nervous.
"We went and played and we had a defense, but we could be better in returning the serves," said the athlete.
"They played well and in the beginning they were riding the wave."
We already told right after the draw that we've picked the most difficult lot possible.
We had a chance to fight for the first place but we did not manage to get past the group.
"Everybody expected us to get a medal or perhaps it was our expectation, but in the end it does not matter whether you have the 25th or the 4th place," commented Samoilovs who predicted that the pair will continue playing together in the future.
I think that there will be no questions and we'll go on playing as the same team, because this situation occurred only in one tournament.
The Rio de Janeiro Olympic Games were the third Olympics for Samoilovs, since he played also in Beijing together with Martins Plavins, but four years earlier in London he joined forces with Ruslans Sorokins.
Meanwhile for Smedins it was the second Olympics.
