Latvenergo observes the gas market liberalization process also as a potential provider.
The state-owned energy company Latvernergo is observing the liberalization of the natural gas market both from a position of a consumer and a potential provider, said the company's press secretary Ivita Bidere.
"A decision on whether Latvenergo will enter the gas market in future also as a seller will be determined by the gas market model and the legal regulation that will be created."
"Therefore we actively participate in the preparation of the legal basis, provide our comments and offer our proposals," Bidere said.
As reported by the news agency BNS, the Ministry of Economics (ME) in cooperation with the Public Utilities Commission and the energy company Latvijas Gaze has come up with a draft Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers "Regulations on trade and use of natural gas" which will replace the existing natural gas market operation principles by granting the natural gas users a right to freely choose their natural gas supplier starting April 3, 2017.
The goal of ME, when working on the new regulation of the natural gas market, is to make it as simple and transparent for the customer as possible.
Therefore, the most efficient and user-friendly service solution is the "provider-centric model", according to which all activities related to the customer service are carried out by a single provider, which means one contract, one bill and one information channel and customer service location, leaving the technical issues of the natural gas distribution system at the operator's discretion.
A similar solution is now being implemented in the electric power market.
We remind that a gradual opening of the market will be applicable to households; also after April 3, 2017, those households which prefer not to choose an alternative natural gas company will be able to continue to receive natural gas from their current supplier for a regulated price thus becoming the "mandated" users.
"In that case the public trader has an obligation to deliver natural gas to the mandated users at a regulated price," the ministry informed.
Meanwhile the economic operators will be obliged to choose a natural gas trader and sign a natural gas supply agreement.
Before signing the natural gas supply agreement, the economic operators will receive natural gas from the current natural gas trader for a price at its discretion, for a certain period.
The draft Regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers specifies in detail the rights and obligations of the natural gas trader, system operator and users.
The Regulation stipulates a procedure by which the user receives natural gas and discontinues its supply, the safety requirements in using natural gas, the rights and obligations of a trader, public trader, system operator, user and owner of the property regarding natural gas supply and use; the procedure by which payments are to be made for the services, the amount of late payment fees, the procedure for switching to another supplier and supply to users during natural gas supply disruptions; the procedure by which the public trader supplies natural gas to the mandated users.
