A fairy tale for Fiji and the two-year-old Harmony.
It is the end of the week, and we want to celebrate fairy tales; we have chosen one for you from the sporting world and another one from real life.
Both have a good ending.
So let's take a look.
Fiji has achieved a historic success.
Why is the whole country celebrating?
The two-year British girl has an identical friend and she is happy.
What do people spend most of their money on at airports?
This is a Friday overview from the world's websites.
The first medal from the Olympic Games.
The island state of Fiji is celebrating a historical success.
Fiji's rugby team defeated in the final of the Olympic sevens rugby tournament the team of Great Britain.
This is the first Olympic gold medal ever won by Fiji.
It took them sixty years from sending their first delegations to the Olympic Games.
The person most credited with Fiji's success is the team manager,
who happens to be somewhat ironically a Brit, Ben Ryan.
He has been managing the team since 2013 and after the final, he had a reason to celebrate in contrast to his compatriots.
"Let's play freely and lightly and see if we can handle the biggest game in our history," said the manager before the final.
Fiji eventually dominated the match, and the small island state with 900 thousand inhabitants is now experiencing an Olympic fairy tale,
as reported by the French daily Le Monde.
A new friend and good luck for a little girl.
Two-year-old Harmonie-Rose Ivy Allen, who lost all her limbs when she was 11 months old has a new friend.
A doll that looks like her.
She just said, "Mummy, she's just like me," Harmonie's mother told ABC News.
"She loves to take the arms and the legs off and they love to sit next to each other without the prosthetics on."
Harmonie fell ill with meningitis B when she was 11 months old. The doctors only gave her 10% chance of survival.
I love everything about her.
She is beautiful, smart, funny and never gives up.
She is quite upfront, too.
I have seen her introduce herself to another child by saying, "I'm Harmonie and I have no hands".
See how happy the little girl is about her new friend.
On what do we spend most money at airports?
According to CNN, people spend most money at airports for bottled water.
Hudson 's travel essential stores recently released a list of the top 10 items sold last year at airports.
Beverages are king,
taking eight of the 10 top slots.
The ninth place is occupied by M&M Peanut king-size with coconut flavour.
Can you guess what is the last item on the top ten list?
The only non-edible item.
According to CNN it is "The Wall Street Journal."
The other popular newspapers sold at airports include:
Favourite magazines were "US Weekly," "In Touch," "The Economist."
