Rowing supremos.
We are just going to win, Murray and Bond said laughing.
The rowers Eric Murray and Hamish Bond from New Zealand have dominated men's coxless pairs for seven years, and they reiterated their dominance at the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.
On the face of it, they looked like an odd couple when they both switched to a smaller crew after the Beijing Olympics. Since 2009, they have completely obliterated their competition.
In Thursday's finale they have recorded their 69th win in a row on the Rodrigo de Freitas Lagoon.
What do we do differently from other crews?
We are simply better looking, joked Murray during the Olympic regatta when he had to answer questions about the dominance of the New Zealand pair.
Honestly, we don't do a hell of a lot differently.
We train hard, really hard,
and just constantly try to refine our technique, that is our philosophy, Murray said on a more serious note.
Their domination is also remarkable given their different physique.
While Murray is almost two meters tall and weighs 100 kilos, Bond is five centimetres shorter and 15 kilos lighter.
Moreover, they have completely different personalities -
Bond is studying finance, and Murray has been involved i.a. in a charity boxing match.
This is likely the reason why they do not spend much time together outside rowing.
Eric gets in the boat with the attitude that we cannot lose.
We are just going to win.
I have a tendency to think about what might go wrong, Bond admitted who clearly demonstrated during the press conference that Murray had the more dominant personality of the two.
It was Murray who answered the questions first, while Bond waited his turn.
On the water, they are destroying their competition with their quiet strength.
They keep the pace from the start, and even though they often do not lead the race at the halfway mark, they gradually go faster - nobody else can do that.
We race on a two kilometre stretch of water, and we never want to test our limits during the first kilometre of the race.
All we do is to try and race at a pace nobody else can keep up with.
We know what we have to do to win, said the thirty-four-year-old Murray.
Together with his four years younger partner, he won seven gold medals at the World Championships.
They also triumphed in 2007, when they were part of the men's four without coxswain.
Following an unexpected defeat of the bigger crew at the Beijing Olympics, Murray and Bond decided to break out into a pair.
At the Olympic Games in London, they avenged the biggest defeat of their career, and they reiterated their supremacy in Rio.
London was very intense.
We did everything our coach told us. No questions asked.
This time it was more enjoyable.
We knew it would be very hard, and we had to make sure that we are mentally strong.
We know that everyone wants to knock us from our number one position.
We walk around with the target on our backs.
That is why we try to be a step ahead of the competition, he added.
