Aleppo doctors appeal to the US to intervene.
"We have seen no effort on behalf of the United States to lift the siege (of the rebel-held part of the city by government forces) or even use its influence to push the parties to protect civilians," said the letter addressed to the White House according to the AFP news agency.
"We do not need tears or sympathy or even prayers; what we desperately need is a no-fly zone over eastern Aleppo to stop the attacks, and we need international action to prevent Aleppo from being again surrounded," said the doctor.
Russian forces which support the army loyal to President Bashar al-Assad, announced that from today, military hostilities in Aleppo will stop for three hours every day to allow humanitarian convoys safe passage.
All military activity, including air strikes and artillery fire is supposed to stop from 9:00 to 12:00 CEST.
The UN Emergency Relief Coordinator, Stephen O'Brien welcomed the initiative, but stressed that what is needed is at least a two-day truce.
According to AFP, the letter to Obama was signed by 15 of the 35 doctors working in the rebel-controlled eastern part Aleppo.
They wrote that for five years, they witnessed the violent, cruel deaths of countless patients, friends and colleagues.
The world has stood by and remarked how complicated Syria was, while doing little to protect us.
Recent offers of evacuation form the regime and Russia had sounded like thinly-veiled threats, said the surgeons paediatricians and other doctors.
Doctors said that last month, there were 42 attacks on medical facilities in Syria, 15 of which were hospitals in which they work.
What pains us most, as doctors, is choosing who will live and who will die.
Young children are sometimes brought into our emergency rooms so badly injured that we have to prioritise those with better chances,
or simply do not have the equipment to help them, said the doctors.
Two weeks ago, four newborn babies, gasping for air suffocated to death after a blast cut the oxygen supply to their incubators.
Gasping for air, their lives ended before they had really begun.
In recent weeks, forces loyal to Bashar al-Assad supported by Russian forces have seized control of the rebel-held east Aleppo with over 200,000 people still trapped inside with no food supplies.
The rebels, who are under constant attack by Russian and Syrian air force, managed to break through the siege on Saturday and launch a counteroffensive.
Both sides have added reinforcements both in the city and the surrounding areas.
