Is a qualification agreement necessary?
If I did not register, there would not be a qualification agreement. Does this mean that I could move to a different hospital after a few months?
Is it even possible to work after completing the course without having to register with a specialised training programme?
I am asking because there is an opening in the field I would like to work in. The only problem is that the hospital is far away. There may be another opening in six months in a hospital much closer to me where I would like to work.
I do not know how to handle the situation during the six months or so, the asker continued.
The question is answered by Mgr. Lenka Vlková.
You are not required under any law to sign a qualification agreement with an employer - hospital.
Qualification agreement is a legal concept which is governed by the Labour Code, and may be concluded between the employee and the employer to recover costs associated with upgrading the skills and enhancing the employee's qualifications.
In the healthcare sector, there has been a long-term pushback against these agreements to ensure the mobility of health workers and not all hospitals currently require this agreement.
Act No 95/2004 Coll., on the conditions of obtaining and recognizing professional qualifications and specialised qualifications for the medical profession of doctor, dentist, pharmacist, as amended, specifically states that participation in specialised training is considered to be an enhancement of qualification (rather than an upgrade).
This means that under the Labour Code, a qualification agreement can only be concluded if the costs reach at least CZK 75,000.
There is also no obligation under the law to apply for specialised training.
The law only stipulates the application requirements for being included in specialisation training.
The doctor is, however, entitled by law to practice medicine alone on the basis of completing the relevant university studies under the conditions stipulated by law (under the expert supervision of a doctor with specialist qualifications in the relevant field).
The law foresees a situation where professional experience in another field of specialisation can count towards specialised medical training of the doctor in question, if its content and scope relate to the relevant educational programme.
In theory, it should be possible to include time worked elsewhere, which is the case here.
Given that I do not know the details of this case, I would recommend a consultation with the relevant department of the Ministry of Health (department of science and medical professions), because the Ministry of Health is required by law to provide advisory and consultancy services relating to the specialist training and its structure.
Free advice is also offered by the Czech Medical Chamber, the membership of which is compulsory for all medical professionals.
